     Skip to main content
    Skip to primary sidebar

go to homepage

    Subscribe
    Recipes
    Health
    Cooking
    Reviews
    Food

  
  

Health » Nutrition
Top 15 Fruits and Vegetables That Help Fight Cancer

Updated: Dec 1, 2021 by Romana Levko

In 2020 alone, around 1.8 million Americans contracted cancer. On average, the death rate from cancer in the United States is about 158 people out of 100,000, meaning that most cancer diagnoses are not a death sentence. We've come a long way in recent years with early detection and treatment methods to ensure that people with cancer can stick around for a long time. 
Fruits and Vegetables That Help Fight Cancer

That said, cancer is still a dangerous and deadly disease, particularly when it isn't caught early. So, taking steps to prevent your risk of developing cancer can help you avoid dealing with it. Although cancer can develop in many ways, maintaining a healthy lifestyle is still one of the best prevention methods. Your diet influences your health significantly, meaning that eating the right foods can help lower your risk level. So, with that in mind, we want to take a look at the top fruits and vegetables you should be eating (and juicing) to fight cancer. 
Table of Contents

Disclaimer: While our research does indicate that these foods can provide noticeable health benefits in fighting cancer, there are no guarantees. Eating these fruits and vegetables doesn't mean that you can't get cancer, only that you'll have less of a risk. As we mentioned, cancer can develop for many reasons, and your diet is only one of them. These recommendations are meant to be taken as guidelines, not hard and fast rules. 
Juicing Your Fruits and Veggies

For many people, adding more fruits and vegetables to their diet is a bit of a struggle. Unfortunately, a bowl of greens is not as tasty as a bowl of candy or bacon, so these ingredients are not always at the top of the shopping list. 

One way to make it easier to incorporate these foods is by juicing them. These days, there are tons of electric juicers on the market, which allow you to extract most of the vitamins and nutrients from each ingredient. So, when trying to add cancer-fighting fruits and veggies to your daily routine, a juicer can be a worthwhile investment. You can find out more about the basics of juicing and how it works here. 
A Primer on Cancer
Cancer Cells

It may surprise you to learn that your body is constantly fighting against cancer. Without these natural systems keeping cancer cells in check, you would develop the disease almost immediately. Also, keep in mind that the term "cancer" refers to a collection of diseases that can affect various parts of the body. Some examples can include colorectal cancer, cervical cancer, bowel cancer, rectal cancer, and more. However, the way that cancer starts is often the same, regardless of where it is. 

In a healthy body, cells die and are continuously replaced. When we're young, our new cells generate far faster than the old ones, which is why we grow bigger as we reach adolescence. Once we get older, this replacement process slows down to the point where cells are dying faster than they're being created, leading to the deterioration of the various internal organs and systems. 

Cells can die either naturally or because they get damaged. Because damaged cells are still technically alive, they are killed by the body so that they don't turn into cancer. Unfortunately, sometimes the cells don't do what they're supposed to, and they survive and multiply. As this happens, the cells spread, often leading to a mass called a tumor. When cancer occurs in the blood, however, it does not form a tumor.
Benign vs. Malignant Tumors

The presence of a tumor does not always mean a serious condition. What matters is if the cancerous cells are invading the normal cells around them, causing them to become cancerous as well. If that happens, the tumor is malignant, meaning that it poses a severe health risk if left untreated. Some forms of cancer are much more aggressive than others, meaning that they attack healthy cells at a much higher rate, spreading throughout the body rapidly. 

Benign tumors are those that don't invade other cells, instead remaining in their original place. In some instances, you might need to get a benign tumor removed, but it rarely poses a threat to your overall health. 
Metastatic Cancer

In many cases, as cancer spreads through other parts of the body, the cells remain biologically similar and don't mutate into other forms of cancer. When this happens, it's called metastatic cancer. For example, if you have lung cancer that spreads to your chest, it doesn't mean that they change to breast cancer cells. Instead, it's called metastatic lung cancer because the cells in the breasts are the same as the ones that originated in the lungs. 
How Does Food Help With Cancer Prevention? 

Overall, as long as your body can keep replacing old cells with healthy new ones, you shouldn't develop cancer. That said, many environmental factors can damage cells and alter their DNA, causing them to multiply and spread unabated. For example, UV rays from the sun destroy skin cells from too much exposure. In some cases, those cells don't die and instead form skin cancer. 
AntiOxidants - Fruits and Vegetables That Help Fight Cancer

Your diet can help facilitate healthy cell regeneration and a lower risk of cancer in a few different ways, such as: 

    Antioxidants - Oxidants, aka free radicals, are naturally occurring chemicals that can potentially damage cells. So, foods with antioxidants (or antioxidant supplements) can help protect your cells and keep them in good condition. That said, new research indicates that antioxidants can actually help cancer spread, so cancer patients will want to avoid them as much as possible. It's currently unclear why this happens, but they can still work as a preventive measure for reduced risk. 
    Fiber - Multiple studies have shown a strong correlation between a high-fiber diet and low cancer risk. While scientists can't fully explain why this happens, one reason could be that fiber helps move waste through your system, meaning that it has less time to leach into the body and damage cells. 
    Polyphenols - This term relates to a class of natural chemicals found in certain fruits and vegetables (and green tea). Polyphenols show antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which studies have shown can help prevent cancer. Remember, though, that antioxidants are not recommended for those who currently have cancer, as they can help the cells spread faster. 

Overall, cancer-fighting foods are mostly unprocessed and all-natural, mainly because they are not actively damaging cells. For example, a Mediterranean diet, which incorporates nuts, fruits, vegetables, fatty fish (with plenty of omega-3 fatty acids), and other healthy food, can make it easier to fend off cancerous growths. That said, meats can increase your cancer risk, thanks to higher concentrations of saturated fat and heterocyclic amines. These amines form when meat is cooked at high temperatures, and they can damage cells. 

Because cell damage can lead to higher cancer risk, the more often you damage your cells, the more you're rolling the dice on your body's health. So, a healthy diet with plenty of fruits and vegetables (and fewer processed foods) can help minimize this damage and help you play the odds. That said, the wrong combination can always come up, no matter how careful you are, so keep in mind that diet is only one part of the equation. 
Which Fruits and Vegetables Can Help Fight Cancer?
Apples

Now that we understand how cancer works and how food can help keep your body healthy, let's break down the top 15 fruits and vegetables that can prevent cell damage and potentially help you avoid cancer altogether. 
Apples

These delicious fruits help fight cancer in two ways. First, they contain polyphenols, which we've established work as antioxidants to prevent cell damage. Second, they have lots of dietary fiber, which helps clean out your system and can help prevent weight gain. 

Unfortunately, when juicing apples, you lose a lot of that fiber, so keep that in mind. Adding the leftover pulp to your beverage helps, but you might have to develop a taste for thicker juices to ensure that the concoction goes down smoothly. 
Blueberries

Almost all berries contain antioxidants, but blueberries have one of the highest natural concentrations. Blueberries also have flavonoids, which help prevent cancer growth. The fruit also contains phytochemicals, which can help reduce cancer growth and prevent DNA damage. More research has to be done to determine how potent blueberries are, but adding a few of them to your juice certainly helps, both with cancer and heart disease. 
Brussels Sprouts

Not only do these tiny cabbages contain plenty of fiber and phytochemicals, but they also have glucosinolate. This chemical has shown preliminary evidence of preventing hormone-related cancers (i.e., breast and prostate cancers). While you can't necessarily juice Brussels sprouts, you can chop them up and add them to a smoothie (or grill them for a tasty side dish).
Cauliflower
Cauliflower - Fruits and Vegetables That Help Fight Cancer

Cauliflower is part of the cruciferous vegetable family, putting it in the same class as broccoli and kale. All cruciferous vegetables have anti-cancer properties, thanks largely to their high concentrations of so many vitamins and minerals. Cauliflower is also an excellent source of vitamin C, which preliminary evidence suggests can help facilitate cancer treatments. While this vegetable isn't as loaded with vitamin C as other foods, it can make a difference. 
Cherries

While other fruits and vegetables can help prevent cancer, cherries may also help keep cancer cells from multiplying too fast. The secret is melatonin, which is being studied for its effectiveness in combating the disease. 
Cranberries

As we mentioned, all berries have antioxidants, but cranberries may go a step further and prevent the growth and spread of cancer cells. Initial research indicates that phenolic compounds, which cranberries have in spades, can inhibit metastasis by affecting the genetic makeup of cancerous cells. 
Grapefruit

While you may have to wear glasses or goggles while eating grapefruit (if cartoons are to be believed), it is chock-full of antioxidants, making it a worthwhile addition to your cancer-fighting arsenal. Plus, if you use a juicer to extract these nutrients, you don't have to worry about getting a shot of unfiltered juice to the eye. 
Grapes

You may have heard that a glass or two of red wine is good for your body, thanks to a polyphenol called resveratrol. However, since the alcohol in wine can somewhat counteract the effects, why not go directly to the source? Grapes also have resveratrol, and you don't have to worry about having a little too much during dinner. Overall, this compound has been shown to reduce cancer cell growth and protect cells to prevent the disease in the first place. 
Kale

Kale has enjoyed the spotlight for quite a while now, having been dubbed a superfood a few years back. While kale isn't exactly a "magic bullet" for health, it does contain lots of antioxidants, which work well to prevent cancer from developing. This leafy green also has fiber and vitamin C for even better benefits. Juicing kale is pretty hard, but you can chop it into tiny pieces or use kale powder and stir it into your beverage. 
Oranges

Orange juice is probably the simplest drink to make in a juicer, and it offers plenty of vitamin C. Oranges also have phytochemicals to help prevent cancer growth, meaning that you can drink orange juice for prevention and mitigation if necessary. 
Pineapple

This fruit is relatively new to the anti-cancer front, but preliminary research shows some promising results. That said, the study did use pineapple vinegar, so it's currently unclear how much of an impact pineapple juice will have on the body. The secret to preventing cancer lies in bromelain, which is highly present in pineapples. This compound is also why pineapple juice can tingle and why it's so useful for tenderizing meat. Bromelain breaks down protein cells and can do the same to cancer too. 
Raspberries
Rasberries

In addition to antioxidants and fiber, raspberries also contain ellagitannin (ET), which is in the same class as flavonoids and polyphenols. Research indicates that ET can help break down cancer cells and prevent them from spreading. Better yet, raspberries are easy to juice and add just a slight tartness to your beverage. 
Spinach

Overall, leafy greens are super healthy, meaning that you should incorporate them as much into your diet as possible. While juicing spinach is pretty challenging, it's easy to add to a smoothie or a salad. Spinach contains many vitamins and minerals, including carotenoids, which have been shown to prevent cancer cells from developing and spreading. 

That said, leafy greens also have beta-carotene, which may increase lung cancer risk for smokers, so keep that in mind if you smoke, even sparingly. 
Strawberries

These berries primarily add antioxidants to your diet, but they are remarkably low in calories and sugar. So, if you're looking for a semi-sweet snack that won't weigh you down, a handful of strawberries can do the trick. Eating them whole will add fiber to your system, but juicing strawberries works for getting those nutrients. A single strawberry only has about four calories, so feel free to get a little wild with them. 
Tomatoes

Last but not least, we have the fruit/vegetable that is the tomato. The secret of this food is lycopene, which is pretty powerful in preventing cancer. This compound protects cells, rounds up free radicals, and helps kill cancer cells before they have a chance to spread. Unfortunately, tomato juice is a bit of an acquired taste, but if you add some sweeter fruits, it will go down easier. 
Bottom Line: Juicing Can Help You Incorporate More Fruits and Veggies
Juicing

As we've seen, a dietary pattern with natural foods like fruits and vegetables can help keep your body in excellent condition. The healthier you are, the less risk you have of developing cancer, so it pays to add as many of these preventive ingredients to your diet as possible. Juicing can make it easier to extract nutrients, but keep in mind that you will lose fiber in the process. If you use a blender and make smoothies, you can keep the fiber and the vitamins, so sometimes that option is healthier. 

However, no matter how you ingest these foods, they're sure to help you feel your best. Remember that physical activity helps regulate your cells and makes it easier for nutrients to flow to various parts of the body. Maintaining a healthy weight can also reduce cancer incidence because you're not putting as much stress on your organs and internal systems. Stay healthy!

Sources:

https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/statistics

https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer

https://www.cancer.gov/news-events/cancer-currents-blog/2015/antioxidants-metastasis

https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/diet/antioxidants-fact-sheet

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1851150/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4997428

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6834187/

https://www.aicr.org/cancer-prevention/food-facts/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2737735

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5503661/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5751192/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6660685/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4885066/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4832910/

https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/diet/cooked-meats-fact-sheet
Related posts:

    Juicing and Diabetes: Is Juicing Good for Diabetes?
    Top Juices and Recipes to Fight Free Radicals
    Tomato Juice, A Wonder Drink: Benefits, Risks, Recipes, and More
    6 Ways Juicing Can Be Bad For Your Health
    Is Juicing Good For Your Heart & Cardiovascular System?
    Research Suggests Fish Oil Supplements Do Not Have Health Benefits 

Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment *

Name *

Email *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Primary Sidebar

My name is Romana, and I'm a happy wife, stay-at-home mom, self-taught cook, writer, photographer, meal prep master, keto enthusiast, and the creator of all these delicious recipes. I'll guide you through the basics of living the low-carb, high-fat life with EASY, healthy, and flavorful recipes.

More about us →
More Posts

    Juicing and Diabetes: Is Juicing Good for Diabetes?Juicing and Diabetes: Is Juicing Good for Diabetes?
    Top Juices and Recipes to Fight Free RadicalsTop Juices and Recipes to Fight Free Radicals
    Tomato Juice, A Wonder Drink: Benefits, Risks, Recipes, and MoreTomato Juice, A Wonder Drink: Benefits, Risks, Recipes, and More
    6 Ways Juicing Can Be Bad For Your Health6 Ways Juicing Can Be Bad For Your Health
    Is Juicing Good For Your Heart & Cardiovascular System?Is Juicing Good For Your Heart & Cardiovascular System?
    Research Suggests Fish Oil Supplements Do Not Have Health BenefitsResearch Suggests Fish Oil Supplements Do Not Have Health Benefits

Footer

↑ back to top
About

    About Us
    Press
    Privacy Policy
    Terms & Conditions

Newsletter

    Sign Up! for emails and updates

Contact

    Contact

As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.

Copyright © 2022




    Home
    Health
    Peace
    Wealth
    Money
    Love & Relationship
    Success
    Happiness
    Good Luck
    Prayer
    Protection

List of Top 12 Cancer-Fighting Fruits and Vegetables
By Team The WisdomPost & Sophia in Cancer

Now more than ever, cancer has become one of the most common and worst ailments of all for the human race. The clinical methods are long, tiring and very costly. And there is a limit to depending upon crude medicines and harsh chemical treatments to get rid of the disease. More so, when we can prevent it and eradicate it naturally by understanding what actually causes or promotes this disease.
Contents

                1. Garlic:
                2. Green Leafy Veggies:
                3. Citrus Fruits:
                4. The Cruciferous Vegetables:
                5. Berries:
                6. Beetroot:
                7. Pineapple:
                8. Sweet Potato:
                9. Mushroom:
                10. Carrots:
                11. Tomato:
                12. Radish: 

A very recent study has proved that cancer only flourishes in the acidic environment. Whereas, our human body, in the optimum health, maintains a slightly alkaline pH. This one basic revelation opens up the gate for a great scope and numerous hopes as far as dealing with cancer is concerned with natural ways and healthy lifestyle.

It is an old saying, ‘What we eat, we become’. Our diet is greatly responsible for how our body behaves. What we choose to eat plays an essential role in defining our health. Right foods can save us from many infections and diseases. Whereas, the poor diet would ultimately make our body a breeding place for many health problems, such as cancer and diabetes.

The good news is that there are already so many fruits and veggies available in our surroundings which are full of elements that can help us fight cancer. All we have to do is include them in our daily diet in sufficient amount.

Let’s list down the top 12 fruits and vegetables which are natural cancer-fighters.
1. Garlic:

Garlic is a member of the allium family, which also includes onions and chives. It is high in sulfur and benefits most when used in the crushed form. It is rich in phytochemicals that are responsible for killing the cancer cells and also supercharging our immune system.
2. Green Leafy Veggies:

Green leafy veggies like spinach and kale top the list as they are blessed with plenty of nutrients including vitamins, antioxidants (isothiocyanates), and beta-carotene. Consuming them in the form of smoothies or simple juices helps to prevent the growth of cancerous cells and accelerate the immunity of our system.
3. Citrus Fruits:

Just the name is enough to remind us of all the juicy, tangy, zesty, and refreshing popular fruits like oranges, lemons, and grapefruits. Citrus fruits are splendid sources of vitamin C and flavonoids. They possess a rare property of being anti-angiogenic. Anti-angiogenic means they would simply block any kind of blood supply to cancerous cells in the body, leading to their destruction.
4. The Cruciferous Vegetables:

The cruciferous family basically includes veggies like cabbage, cauliflowers, broccoli, and kale etc. Even bok choy and turnips fall in the same category. Apart from being rich in carotenoids (which provide pigments to these colorful vegetables), cruciferous plants are known to have a considerable amount of chemicals with sulfur in them, also called glucosinolates. Consuming them in sufficient amounts helps in controlling and fighting the cancer-causing cells.
5. Berries:

Berries are loved by everyone for their sweet-sour flavor and sumptuous pulpiness. However, they are more than just flavors and are filled with antioxidant known as anthocyanin. The most popular fruits like cranberries, cherries, blueberries, strawberries, grapes, and raspberries are abundant in antioxidants. Anthocyanins basically act like soldiers, protecting your healthy cells from cancer.
6. Beetroot:

Beets come in a variety of colors. They are very good sources of betalain, which is a phytonutrient. This phytonutrient plays a major role in preventing the germination of cancerous cells in human beings. Beets are also filled with vitamins and antioxidants that help our body fight with other infections too.
7. Pineapple:

Pineapple juice is known for weight loss and killing infections like flu. But, it is also one of the most prominent fruits with anti-cancerous properties. The reason is, pineapple carries an enzyme bromelain, which is stuffed with the anti-inflammatory property. This helps bromelain in increasing the immunity of our body and as a result cleaning-up the cancer cells.
8. Sweet Potato:

Sweet potatoes are a bliss to everybody including patients with cancer and diabetes. Sweet potatoes come in three varieties. The orange-colored is the most common and white and purple are the rare ones. They possess an enormous amount of antioxidants which is almost like a poison to cancerous cells. They are also rich in vitamin A and healthy type of calories. The polyphenol present in sweet potatoes is responsible for killing the tumor cells at a very rapid rate.
9. Mushroom:

There is no limit to the available varieties of delicious edible mushrooms. They are yummy to eat, easy to cook and can be tossed into any kind of dish to raise the nutrition value of the food. Mushrooms are high in vitamin B, antioxidants (ergothioneine), riboflavin, and fibers. They contribute to keeping the good cells healthy with the help of beta-glucans and even prevent cell mutation. You can use them as roasted, sliced, diced or chopped forms in soups, stir-fry, salad, or any other dish, to give your health a major boost.
10. Carrots:

Carrots are vegetables exploding with falcarinol, and both alpha and beta carotenes. These carotenoids carry and contribute to the red and orange pigments in carrots. Carotenoids are highly active at killing tumor cells and make carrots amongst the topmost vegetables in the list of cancer-killing natural foods. Carrots can very well be used in salads, desserts, purees, and eaten in cooked or raw forms.
11. Tomato:

Apart from being a rejuvenating skin tonic, the lycopene present in tomatoes is a strong killer of cancer cells. This juicy fruit pours out its best antioxidant medicinal qualities when it is consumed in cooked form rather than raw. Soups and sauces are some of the delicious ways to include tomatoes in our diets and fight deadly cancer at the same time.
12. Radish:

Radishes are best at detoxifying our body. They purify our blood and flush the toxins out of our body. Radishes come in various colors and varieties. They are abundant sources of carotenoids, vitamin B, and folate which helps in repairing the damaged cells, thus decreasing the risk of cancer.

Message from Sophia!
I would love to hear from you and read your comments on this article. Let me know what you think about this article. Is it helpful to you? Your comments and suggestions will serve as an inspiration and learning platform for me.
Regards, Sophia

Like this post? Don’t forget to share it!

Here are a few recommended articles for you to read next:
List of Top 12 Cancer Fighting Herbs
List of Foods that Fight Cancer Tumors
The Powerful Fruit That Reduces Your Chance of Stroke, Cancer and High Blood Pressure
Common Medication Linked to Cancer, Cataracts and Alzheimer’s Disease
No comments yet.
Site Moderator – Sophia

I love dancing, singing, travelling, watching videos on Youtube and making new friends. Shopping is my favorite pastime! I love it. For me, my family and friends are everything. Last year I added a new habit of reading books to by daily rituals.

And now, I love reading books more than anything else. A habit I live by and have reinforced my entire life around reading a book a week.

I strongly believe that the ‘Law of Attraction’ is always working and is absolutely amazing. My favorite quote: ‘What you seek is seeking you’- Rumi. And my most favorite book is: The Secret

My greatest strength: My love for reading books, life on internet, affection and blessings of my parents and friends.

My greatest weakness: I act as an extrovert but from deep inside I am an Introvert and Shy. My shyness is my greatest weakness. Currently I’m reading this book: Quite.

Thanks!

Sophia
I need help with ...
Improving my
Health
Making my Life
Peaceful
Becoming
Wealthy
Making Money
Online
Love and
Relationship
Becoming Successful in Life
10 x my
Happiness
Attracting Good Luck
Prayer
Protection

Recent Articles

    Essay on Technology
    Essay on Effects of Global Warming
    Essay on Obesity
    Essay on Wonders of Science
    Essay on Social Issues
    Essay on Subhas Chandra Bose

ABOUT US

    Home
    About Project
    Testimonials
    Contact Us

POPULAR CATEGORIES

    Health
    Peace
    Wealth
    Money
    Relationship
    Success
    Happiness
    Good Luck
    Prayer
    Protection

    Billionaires
        Donald Trump
        Jack Ma
        Warren Buffett
    Blogging
        AppSumo
        Email Address
        Free Stock Photos
        Hosting
        SEO
        Keyword Research Tools
        URL Shortener Tools
        WordPress
        WordPress Theme
    Book Summaries
        How To Win Friends
        Rich Dad Poor Dad
        The Code of the Extraordinary Mind
        The Luck Factor
        The Millionaire Fastlane
        The ONE Thing
        Think and Grow Rich
    Business
        100 Million Dollar Business
        Business Ideas
    Digital Marketing
    Essay
        Addiction
        Mobile Addiction
        Social Media Addiction
        Computer Addiction
        Drug Addiction
        Gratitude
        Internet Addiction
        TV Addiction
        Wealth
        Wisdom
    Freelance
        Fiverr
        Upwork
    Good Luck
    Habits
        Healthy Habits
        Laziness
        Morning Rituals
        Wake up Early
    Happiness
    Health
        Cancer
        Cholesterol
        Reducing Cholesterol
        Diabetes
        Diet Habit
        Dieting
        Energy
        Fat Loss Diet Plan
        Hair Fall
        Reducing Hair Fall
        Healthy Habits
        Heart
        Hiccups
        Hot Water
        Sleep Apnea
        Sleeping
        Weight Loss
    Home
    Internet Marketing
        Email Marketing
    Law of Attraction
        Abundance
        Act As If
        Feel Good
        Gratitude
        Subconscious Mind
        Vision Board
        Visualization
    Law of Vibration
    Life
        Professional Life
    Luck
    Money
    Motivational Speakers
        Bob Proctor
        Robert Kiyosaki
        Seminars
        Vivek Bindra
    Movies
    Peace
        Inner Peace
    Prayer
    Productivity
        Not To-do List
        Project Management Software
        To-do List
    Protection
        Negative Energies
    Reading
    Relationship
        Alpha Male
        Conflicts
        Dating
        Getting Back Your Ex
    Self-help 21 and 14 Days Course
    Self-improvement
        Body Language
        Complainers
        Education
        Emotional Intelligence
        Faith
        Fear
        Goals
        Growth
        Memory
        Personality
        Introvert
        Persuasion
        Power
        Silence
        Thought
    Social Media
        Facebook
        Instagram
        Twitter
        YouTube
        TubeBuddy
    Software
        Project Management
    Success
        Anik Singal
        Baba Ramdev
        Brad Pitt
        Dwayne Johnson
        Elon Musk
        Jackie Chan
        John Chow
        Leonardo DiCaprio
        Narendra Modi
        Nikola Tesla
        Sachin Tendulkar
        Sadhguru
        Sandeep Maheshwari
        Shakira
        Shaqir Hussyin
        Tai Lopez
        Tom Cruise
    Wealth
    Website Development
        Shopify
    Wisdom Post
    Worlds Most
        Expensive Cars

    About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Disclaimer Copyright Contact Us 



Healthy, ethical, and sustainable food for all.

Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest

    YoutTube 

Contact/FAQ
Log In

    Our Mission
    Blog
    More

Search
Food Revolution Network
245,267 Readers
The Top 10 Vegetables You Can Eat to Prevent and Reverse Cancer
Chris Wark · Published July 5, 2018 · 5 min read
Summary

If there were 10 cancer fighting foods worth eating on a regular basis, what would they be?
Share6K
Tweet
Pin1K
8K Shares

If there were 10 cancer fighting foods worth eating on a regular basis, what would they be?

By Chris Wark • Originally published on ChrisBeatCancer.com

If you haven’t noticed, we are constantly bombarded with pleas from charities for cancer research money.

    Race for the Cure
    Stand Up to Cancer
    Buy Pink products
    Grow a Movember mustache

This is often accompanied by the message that “we are running out of funding for cancer research.”

And, of course, this is a problem because “without funding for more research, we will never find a cure.”

Cue the shots of bald women and children poisoned by chemo, accompanied by dramatic music.

Then, insert a high-profile celebrity to say, “The cure is just around the corner. Together, we can make cancer history. Please give today.”

Here’s the reality…

The mega-billion-dollar pharmaceutical industry has plenty of money to fund research.

They would just prefer that you fund it with your donations instead of theirs.

Real problem #1 They are running out of your money.

Real problem #2 They are only interested in medicines they can patent.

Real problem #3 Research on nutrition and natural therapies is ignored.

There are literally thousands of published peer-reviewed studies demonstrating that the 100,000+ phytonutrients in plants have the ability to prevent and reverse cancer.

But because the pharmaceutical industry can’t figure out how to extract these compounds, synthesize them, and patent them for profit, they are ignored.

    100,000+ phytonutrients in plants have the ability to prevent and reverse cancer.

Doctors can’t even use this published information or they risk losing their license.

But you can!

One of my favorite studies was published in Food Chemistry, January 2009 called,

“The antiproliferative and antioxidant activities of common vegetables: A comparative study.”

Researchers studied the inhibitory (cancer-stopping) effects of 34 vegetable extracts on 8 different tumor cell lines. They basically just ran vegetables through a juicer and then dripped the extracted juice on different cancer cells to see what would happen.
Here Are The Top 10 Anti-Cancer Vegetables From This Study…
Cancer fighting foods: Garlic
iStock.com/Amarita

The #1 most powerful anti-cancer food was garlic.

Garlic stopped cancer growth COMPLETELY against these tumor cell lines:

    Breast cancer
    Brain cancer
    Lung cancer
    Pancreatic cancer
    Prostate cancer
    Childhood brain cancer
    And stomach cancer

Leeks were #1 against kidney cancer. Garlic was #2.

But not just garlic and leeks, almost all vegetables from the Allium and Cruciferous families completely stopped growth in the various cancers tested.

Here they are:

Allium vegetables:

    Garlic
    Leeks
    Yellow and Green Onions

Cruciferous vegetables:

    Broccoli
    Brussels sprouts
    Cauliflower
    Kale
    Red cabbage and curly cabbage

Spinach and Beet Root also scored in the top ten against many of the cancers tested.

Honorable mentions:

    Asparagus
    Fiddlehead
    Green beans
    Radishes
    Rutabaga

Poor Performers:

    Acorn Squash
    Bok Choy
    Boston Lettuce
    Carrot
    Endive
    English Cucumber
    Fennel Bulb
    Jalapeño
    Orange Sweet Pepper
    Potato
    Radicchio
    Romaine lettuce
    Tomatoes

Here is an excerpt from the paper’s abstract:

“The extracts from cruciferous vegetables as well as those from vegetables of the genus Allium inhibited the proliferation of all tested cancer cell lines whereas extracts from vegetables most commonly consumed in Western countries were much less effective. The antiproliferative effect of vegetables was specific to cells of cancerous origin and was found to be largely independent of their antioxidant properties. These results thus indicate that vegetables have very different inhibitory activities towards cancer cells and that the inclusion of cruciferous and Allium vegetables in the diet is essential for effective dietary-based chemopreventive strategies.”

Translation:

    Allium and cruciferous veggies stopped cancer cell growth.
    Commonly consumed vegetables did not work as well.
    The antioxidant content of veggies was not a key anti-cancer factor.
    Different vegetables work for different cancers.
    Allium and cruciferous veggies should be eaten to prevent cancer.

So the most commonly consumed vegetables in Western countries had very little effect on cancer cell growth.

The top three (potatoes, lettuce, and carrots) account for 60% of the vegetables we Westerners are eating. 32% of our vegetable intake is potatoes, and half of that is actually french fries. Nice.

Dark greens, cruciferous veggies, and garlic account for less than 1% of our Western diet! Hello?

An interesting note:

Radishes were found to stop tumor growth by 95-100% for breast and stomach cancer but may have even increased tumor growth by 20-25% in pancreatic, brain, lung, and kidney cancer. Definitely something to keep in mind.

Have a look at the charts in the study to see which veggies worked best against which cancer. Read the full study here. The charts are on page 3.

Now if you are familiar with my story you may be thinking, “Wait a minute Chris, didn’t you drink tons of carrot juice every day?”

Yes, I did. (More about that here)
Before You Write Off the “Poor Performers”

It’s important to keep in mind that this is a laboratory study showing only what a vegetable extract did to when applied directly to cancer cells.

The study does not take into account the vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients that indirectly support your body’s ability to repair, regenerate, detoxify, and heal.

    Cancer is a product of a toxic body, so detoxing your body is critical in healing cancer.

For example, carrots are a potent source of beta-carotene, which is converted to Vitamin A in the body. Vitamin A supports your liver. Your liver is a critical component of your immune system because it detoxifies your body. Cancer is a product of a toxic body, so detoxing your body is critical in healing cancer, and so on.

Having said all that, it makes sense to focus on eating tons of the veggies that were actually killing cancer in the lab.

Also, this study confirms why what I did in 2004 worked.

I ate copious amounts of these cancer-fighting vegetables every day in my Giant Cancer-Fighting Salad, specifically spinach, kale, broccoli, cauliflower, onions, red cabbage, and garlic powder. I had no idea about leeks or else they would have been in there, too.
Garlic Is An Anti-Cancer Vegetable

And I ate several cloves of garlic per day.

If garlic kills cancer, then I wanted to saturate my body with garlic.

So I would just crush up the cloves and swallow them with a mouthful of water.

I also took Kyolic Garlic Extract.

And yes, I reeked. But I lived to tell the tale!
Top 10 Anti-Cancer Vegetables

Cancer fighting foods infographic

    Garlic
    Leeks
    Yellow and Green Onions
    Broccoli
    Brussels Sprouts
    Cauliflower
    Kale
    Red Cabbage and Curly Cabbage
    Spinach
    Beet Root

Honorable Mentions:

    Asparagus
    Fiddlehead
    Green beans
    Radishes
    Rutabaga

Tell us in the comments:

    What are your favorite cancer fighting foods?
    What are your experiences with cancer?

Did you know? 100,000+ phytonutrients in plants have the ability to prevent and reverse cancer.
And if you’re inspired, please LIKE and SHARE this article. Together, we can work for healthy, ethical, sustainable food for all!

Featured Image: iStock.com/gdjukanovic
#beating cancer#cancer fighting foods#food and cancer#preventing cancer
Post navigation

Previously

Up Next
Share6K
Tweet
Pin1K
8K Shares
Join the Conversation
Chris Wark

View Profile

“I feel better than I have in years.”

— Adchara, Wenatchee, WA

Join FREE

Popular Articles
A variety of whole and sliced tomatoes on a cutting board

Are Tomatoes Good for You?

143,138 Readers

Clean Skincare: Nature’s Top 10 Most Effective Anti-Aging & Longevity Ingredients to Use on Your Skin

192,304 Readers
An air fryer sitting on a kitchen counter

Are Air Fryers Worth It? + 5 Healthy Air Fryer Recipes to Consider

123,649 Readers
Stay Connected
Like Us On
Facebook
Follow Us On
Twitter
Follow Us On
Instagram
Subscribe On
YouTube
Follow Us On
Pinterest
Trending Articles of the Week
9 Health Benefits of Chia Seeds and How to Eat Them
Plant-Based Alternatives to Retinol for Healthy, Younger-Looking Skin
How to Wash Vegetables and Fruits to Remove Pesticides
Why School Lunches in America Are Unhealthy and 10 Ways You Can Take Action to Improve Them
Everything You Need to Know About Natural Flavors
Everything You Need to Know About Avocados + 15 Science-Backed Reasons to Eat These Fabulous Fruits

“I feel better than I have in years.”

— Adchara, Wenatchee, WA

25 Experts | 9 Days | The Food Event of the Year

Join FREE

Food Revolution Network
Healthy, ethical, sustainable food for all.

Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest

    YoutTube 

    Our Mission
    Food Revolution Summit
    WHOLE Life Club
    FRN Jobs

    Become an Affiliate
    Contact/FAQ
    Privacy Policy
    Terms of Service
    Sitemap

At Food Revolution Network (FRN), our mission is healthy, ethical, sustainable food for all. Information and resources shared by FRN are for informational purposes only and are not intended to diagnose, treat, or cure any type of disease or condition. Reviews and testimonials of specific diets and approaches to health represent individual experiences and FRN does not guarantee any specific results from these approaches for your specific situation.

In support of our educational mission, we sometimes share resources offered by trusted partners. If you purchase products from one of these partners, FRN may at times receive a portion of the proceeds. As an Amazon Associate FRN earns from qualifying purchases. These affiliations support our work and allow us to continue bringing you valuable, life-changing content. Here are our full terms & conditions. To opt-out of ever having your info sold to 3rd parties under any circumstances, click here.



Pavtan Food Products

    Home
    About
    Cancer Care Food
    Blog
    Contact us
    BUY NOW
    Login
    Language

Health & Nutrition
Five Fruits & Vegetables That Fight Cancer
admin September 11, 2018 Leave a Comment
Five Fruits & Vegetables That Fight Cancer	
Introduction

Cancer can quite literally change lives forever and not in a positive way. One of the
worst things that can happen to anyone involve a diagnosis of this illness.
However, it’s not all doom and gloom. Nature has some great fruits and vegetables
which we can utilize to help fight this vicious, consuming disease. While they aren’t
explicitly known to cure this disease- people have observed that by using these
foods they have significantly lowered their chances of cancer, and for patients,
combined with medical support, these fruits and vegetables have helped fight cancer
and allow the body to heal itself.

In the list down below, you’ll find some of the best cancer-fighting fruits and
vegetables that nature has graced us with.
1.Raw Garlic

Raw Garlic

Now, we know that a lot of people don’t necessarily like eating raw garlic. But it’s
actually quite good for those looking to avoid or fight cancer. Why, you may ask?
Well, that’s because it is packed with powerful antioxidants such as allicin which had
been known to remove radicals- such as cancer cells- from your body. Additionally, it
also lowers blood pressure, boosts immunity- which great for your body if it’s fighting
against cancer- and improves brain function.
2. Leafy Greens

Leafy Greens

Leafy greens like spinach can be very effective when fighting cancer. This is
because it is rich in vitamins, omega-3 fatty acids and minerals that will keep your
body strong and immune to diseases. It also includes biochemicals known as
flavonoids and are known to soak up radicals and chuck ‘em out of your system! But
that’s all. Doctors have found that leafy green vegetables are particularly rich in fibre
and folate which are two essential tools in fighting cancer so don’t hold back on
using these!
3. Carrots

Carrots

Several studies have found that eating more carrots can decrease the risk of many
types of cancers; therefore, we strongly recommend people to eat more and more
carrots in order to fight cancer. Try adding carrots to your diet- maybe a s a side

vegetable or a snack for snack times a few times every week to lower your risk of
cancer. You can also add this to a patient’s diet to help them fight against cancer, so
that it is stopped from spreading so the doctors can help curb it from the patient’s
body forever.
4. Berries

Berries

Berries are another great source of preventing, and fighting against, cancer. Coming
with high anthocyanins, their pigments have antioxidant properties which have been
found to lower the risk of cancer. Patients should also be given dried berries such as
dried black raspberries to reduce the spread of cancer, as the berry extract are found
to reduce some biomarkers.
5. Tomatoes

Tomatoes

And lastly, we have tomatoes on our list. Tomatoes include the lycopene compound
which is known to have anti-cancer properties. The intake of raw tomatoes in
patients can significantly reduce cancerous cells from the body. You can also feed

them cooked tomatoes and incorporate tomatoes into their diets as that is also
known to reduce the effect of cancer.
Conclusion

As you can see, these are just some of the many, many fruits and vegetables out of
there that help fight cancer. We hope you found this article useful and will utilize
these foods in your life to improve your quality of life as well as fight against cancer.
Good luck!

 

Pavtan food products have been made after years of scientific research based on Ayurveda and Medical Science.

Our ‘Cancer Care Aata’ has proved to be an ayurvedic gift to cancer patients, thousands of them have benefitted from it. The major ingredients include Raj Gira, Singhada, Saava, Kattu and Moong which help in curing cancer and preventing the cancer cells to grow further.
To know more, click here https://www.pavtan.com/pavtan-cancer-care-aata

 
Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

Categories

    Cancer News
    Health & Nutrition

Recent Posts

    Ayurvedic Remedies for the treatment of throat cancer
    पेट का कैंसर कारण,लक्षण,सावधानियां और बचाव के उपाय
    Ayurvedic Remedies for the treatment of Nasopharynx Cancer
    कैसे आयुर्वेदिक पद्धति से गर्भाशय कैंसर का इलाज किया जा सकता हैं?
    How An Ayurvedic Diet Can Help With Esophageal Cancer?

Archives

    April 2022
    March 2022
    February 2022
    January 2022
    December 2021
    November 2021
    October 2021
    September 2021
    August 2021
    July 2021
    June 2021
    April 2021
    March 2021
    January 2021
    November 2020
    October 2020
    August 2020
    July 2020
    June 2020
    April 2020
    March 2020
    February 2020
    January 2020
    December 2019
    November 2019
    October 2019
    August 2019
    July 2019
    June 2019
    May 2019
    April 2019
    March 2019
    November 2018
    October 2018
    September 2018

fotter-logo

Pavtan food products are the result of intensive research based on Ayurveda and state-of-the-art medical practices. We follow the principles of Ayurvedic remedies and focus on the fact that a balanced diet is an inevitable part of any remedy.
Quick Links

    Contact Us
    About Us
    FAQ’s
    Privacy Policy
    Shipping Terms
    Delivery Information
    Terms of service

Contact us

    Village Moti Bor Ka Khera
    Tehsil Aasind, District Bhilwara,
    Rajasthan India - 311024
    +91 87693 88020
    pavtanfood@gmail.com

© Copyright 2021 Pavtan Food Products




American Institute for Cancer Research
Search for:

    Blog
    News
    Cancer Health Check
    Shop AICR
    Contact
    Sign Up

Donate Today

    Cancer Prevention
    Cancer Survival
    Impact
    Resources
    Research
    Support

Ways to Give
Events
Planned Giving
Corporate Partnerships
Donate Now
Give Monthly
Honor/Memorial Gifts
Donate a Vehicle
Purchase Greeting Cards
Workplace Giving
Matching Gifts
TeamAICR
Shred Cancer
Digital Fundraising
Research Conference

When you include the American Institute for Cancer Research in your estate plans, you make a major difference in the fight against cancer.

Corporate Champions who partner with the American Institute for Cancer Research stand at the forefront of the fight against cancer
Facebook Fundraiser​
AICR Strava Club
Amazon Smile
Research Symposium
Research Conference
Research & Grants
Continuous Update Project
Third Expert Report

The AICR Lifestyle & Cancer Symposium addresses the most current and consequential issues regarding diet, obesity, physical activity and cancer.

The Annual AICR Research Conference is the most authoritative source for information on diet, obesity, physical activity and cancer.
Overview
Browse Studies
Grant Program
Fellowship Program
Research Conference

The Continuous Update Project (CUP) is an ongoing program that analyzes global research on how diet, nutrition and physical activity affect cancer risk and survival.

A major milestone in cancer research, the Third Expert Report analyzes and synthesizes the evidence gathered in CUP reports and serves as a vital resource for anyone interested in preventing cancer.
ResourcesNav New
Resources for...
Media Library
FAQ
Blog
Shop Resources
Health Professionals
Caregivers
Families & Children
Press
Estate Planners
Webinars
Quizzes
Infographics
Videos
Activities

Whether you are a healthcare provider, a researcher, or just someone who wants to learn more about cancer prevention, we’re here to help.
All Blog Posts
Most Recent:
University of Tennessee Celebrates National Cancer Prevention Month
Is there a Place for Processed Foods in a Diet to Reduce Cancer Risk?
By the Numbers
Stories of Impact
Policy & Advocacy
Our Mission
Our History
Leadership
Financial Information

AICR has pushed research to new heights, and has helped thousands of communities better understand the intersection of lifestyle, nutrition, and cancer.

Read real-life accounts of how AICR is changing lives through cancer prevention and survivorship.

We bring a detailed policy framework to our advocacy efforts, and provide lawmakers with the scientific evidence they need to achieve our objectives.

AICR champions research that increases understanding of the relationship between nutrition, lifestyle, and cancer.
Overview
Types of Cancer
Treatment Tips
Programs
Shop Resources

AICR’s resources can help you navigate questions about nutrition and lifestyle, and empower you to advocate for your health.
All Cancer Types
Commonly Searched:
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Oral Cancer
Before Treatment
During Treatment
After Treatment
The New American Plate
Coping with Cancer in the Kitchen
Cancer Prevention Campaign
Recommendations
Diet
Lifestyle
Tools
Shop Resources

Take a pledge to support cancer prevention and healthy survivorship.

AICR is committed to putting what we know about cancer prevention into action. To help you live healthier, we’ve taken the latest research and made 10 Cancer Prevention Recommendations.
Healthy Eating Overview
Food Facts
Recipes
Supplements/Nutrients
New American Plate
Overview
Physical Activity
Weight
Alcohol
Hot Topics
Healthy10 Challenge
Cancer Health Check
BMI Calculator
Nutrition Label
December 1, 2010 | 3 minute read
Do Fruits, Vegetables Protect Against Cancer?
AICR
Email
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn

People might be confused by an article published  this morning in the British Journal of Cancer — or at least by the media coverage it’s receiving.  Over in the UK, the headlines have already started:  “Fruit and vegetables do not reduce overall cancer risk”.

The review article concludes that advice on diet and cancer should include eating a healthy amount of fruits and veggies, but that it should focus on the harmful effects of obesity and alcohol intake.

There are many points in the article that agree with AICR’s expert report and its updates. But as AICR’s expert report makes clear, eating plenty of fruits and vegetables is an important part of living to lower cancer risk.

AICR will be releasing a press statement to that effect shortly. The picture on fruits and vegetables and cancer may seem confusing at first, but let’s start with some basics:

Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables helps with weight control

The effect on weight is vital to cancer prevention, because there is convincing evidence that excess body fat increases risk of six types of cancer, including colorectal and breast cancer.

Not All Cancers Are Alike

The AICR expert report found probable evidence linking fruits and vegetable consumption to cancers of the mouth, pharynx and larynx, stomach, esophagus and lung (fruits only).

Unknown and Known Benefits

In laboratory research, numerous compounds in fruits and vegetables slow cancer development. As the review points out, a better understanding of how fruits and vegetables play a role in cancer development is needed to understand it’s protective effect.  Also, there are many known health benefits of eating fruits and vegetables, including reducing risk of heart disease.

The review article also reflect the findings of a big study on fruits and vegetables and cancer that was published earlier this year, which suggested about 7,000 cases of cancer a year could be prevented in the UK if everyone ate an extra two portions a day.

One of the key points made in the review article is the difficulty of accurately measuring smoking and alcohol in studies looking at diet and cancer. Many of the cancers linked with fruits and vegetables having a protective effect are also linked strongly with smoking and alcohol intake. People who smoke are likely to eat fewer fruits and vegetables than people who do not smoke. Although studies try to account for smoking and alcohol intake, most experts would agree that more research is needed to untangle the effects of smoking, alcohol and fruits and vegetables on cancer development.

We are confident in our Recommendation to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables as part of a plant-based diet because this is the judgement of an independent panel of 21 world-renowned scientists who made recommendations after systematically reviewing all the evidence. You can read more about the science behind AICR’s Recommendations here.
AICR Impact

The American Institute for Cancer Research helps the public understand the relationship between lifestyle, nutrition and cancer risk. We work to prevent cancer through innovative research, community programs and impactful public health initiatives.

Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment *

Name *

Email *

Website

More From the Blog
All Articles
March 15, 2022
University of Tennessee Celebrates National Cancer Prevention Month
Have you ever heard of the saying, “you are what you eat”? As a registered dietitian...
4 minute read
February 16, 2022
Is there a Place for Processed Foods in a Diet to Reduce Cancer Risk?
Do processed foods fit into a diet to reduce cancer risk? You can find plenty of pithy statements...
8 minute read
Trending Topics
Coffee
Eat Smart
Heart Disease
Move More
obesity
Physical Activity
Recipes
weight loss
Your Passion Fuels Our Success

With your help we are able to advance research, improve cancer education and connect patients with life-saving resources.
$
Our Vision:

We want to live in a world where no one develops a preventable cancer.
Our Mission:

We champion the latest and most authoritative scientific research from around the world on cancer prevention and survival through diet, weight and physical activity, so that we can help people make informed lifestyle choices to reduce their cancer risk.
Ways to Give

Help us drive the future of cancer prevention, and give families and communities the tools they need to take charge of their health.
Contact

American Institute for Cancer Research
1560 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1000
Arlington, VA 22209
Phone: (800) 843-8114
Fax: (202) 328-7226
Contact Us

    Follow us on Twitter!
    Follow us on Facebook!
    Connect with us on LinkedIn!
    Follow us on Instagram!
    Follow us on Pinterest!

What We Do

We fund cutting-edge research and give people practical tools and information to help them prevent — and survive — cancer.
Search for:
Email Updates

©2022 American Institute for Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

The American Institute for Cancer Research is a nonprofit charity designated as tax-exempt under Section 501(c)3 by the Internal Revenue Service.
Donations are tax-deductible to the full extent of the law. EIN 52-1238026.

Privacy Policy  | Financial Information  |  Content Usage   |  Terms of Service   |  Do Not Call Policy

Site by Foundry19
Close



Skip to main content
search
logo for webmd
Cancer Center
Find an Oncologist
menu
Cancer

    Overview & Facts
    Risks & Prevention
    Symptoms & Signs
    Cancer Types

More

    Cancer Cancer Reference 

Fruits to Eat When You Have Cancer
Reviewed by Jennifer Robinson, MD on May 25, 2020

You already know that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is good for you. But when you're going through cancer treatment or trying to keep cancer from coming back, some fruits may be better than others.

The research on fruits and cancer isn’t perfect. There aren’t many studies, and the results are often inconsistent. No food, and certainly no one fruit, can prevent or fight cancer.

Still, certain types of fruits may have cancer-fighting qualities. Others can make it easier for you to cope with the side effects of treatments.
Fruit During Cancer Treatment

Fruit provides nutrients that you need during cancer treatment. Some fruits may also help ease discomfort. Experts recommend these, depending on how you feel:

    For nausea and vomiting: canned fruit, applesauce, peaches, and other soft fruit
    For constipation: raw fruits, dried fruits, prune juice
    For diarrhea: fruit juices, bananas, and apples as part of the BRAT (bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast) diet
    For loss of appetite: high-calorie foods, including dried fruit and fruit smoothies
    For mouth sores: nectars, apple juice, canned fruit, applesauce

Citrus Fruit

Citrus fruit, like grapefruits and oranges, may have a role in preventing certain cancers. One large study in Japan found that people who had citrus fruits or juices 3-4 days a week were less likely to get cancer than those who had them 2 or fewer days a week.

Though the research results aren't clear-cut, they show that citrus might help fend off several types of cancer:

    Cancers of the digestive tract, like colon cancer
    Cancers of the respiratory tract, like lung cancer
    Pancreatic cancer
    Prostate cancer
    Breast cancer
    Nasopharyngeal cancer, a type of head and neck cancer
    Cutaneous melanoma, a type of skin cancer

 
Apples and Other 'White' Fruit

At least one meta-analysis -- a study that looks at lots of previous research on a subject -- linked apples with a reduced risk for cancer. The link seems strongest for lung cancer. But apples may also help protect against:

    Breast cancer
    Colorectal cancer
    Other cancers of the digestive tract

Another study found that eating white vegetables and fruits, like apples, pears, mushrooms, and onions, may help protect against colorectal cancer. (Apples and pears are considered white because of their flesh.)

The possible benefit from apples probably comes from two substances they contain: polysaccharides, a type of carbohydrate, and quercetin, a plant pigment. Both may help fight cancer cells.
Green Fruits

Green fruits may help protect against colorectal cancer, according to the same study that looked at white fruits and veggies. Green fruits include:

    Kiwifruit
    Honeydew melon
    Green grapes

Other research also suggests kiwifruit may help prevent cancer. That's partly because of the fruit’s antioxidants, and partly because kiwifruit promotes a healthy gut.
Dried Fruit

Dried fruit like prunes and raisins can be a healthy choice. Research shows that regularly eating dried fruit may help ward off some types of cancer. It might also help keep cancer from getting worse.

Eating three to five servings of dried fruits a week may help prevent:

    Colorectal polyps, growths in your large intestine that aren't cancerous but could eventually turn into cancer
    Prostate cancer
    Death from pancreatic cancer
    Stomach cancer

Other Fruits That May Fight Cancer

Researchers are studying a range of plant chemicals that may play a role in cancer prevention, including:

    Bromelain, an enzyme in pineapples
    Carotenoids, plant pigments often found in orange fruits
    Antioxidants in pomegranates

The research is in its early stages, so we really don't know yet if these plant chemicals have cancer benefits. But at the least, these fruits are high in fiber. Fiber can help reduce your risk of certain cancers and help you maintain a healthy weight.
WebMD Medical Reference
Sources
© 2020 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Top Picks

    Chemo: 3 Things You Need to Know
    Lower Your Risk of Cancer
    Liver Cancer: Symptoms, Tests, and Treatments
    How Immunotherapy for Cancer Works
    Cancer Remission: What Does It Mean?
    Preparing for Chemotherapy

Today on WebMD
man holding lung xray
Lung Cancer Symptoms

What you need to know.
stem cells
Stem Cell Transplants

How they work for blood cancers.
woman wearing pink ribbon
Breast Cancer Quiz

Separate fact from fiction.
woman kissing dog
Cancer Side Effects

And how to best treat them.
Subscribe to WebMD Newsletters
Food & Fitness
Women's Health
Men's Health
Good Health
Logo for WebMD
Get our Cancer newsletter, join the community:
By clicking Subscribe, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy. I also agree to receive emails from WebMD and I understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time.
More from WebMD

    5 Tips to Help With Relapsing MS How to Thrive With Narcolepsy Relief for Blocked Hair Follicles Psoriatic Arthritis and Your Sleep What Psoriasis Feels Like First Psoriatic Arthritis Flare Talking to Your Doctor About RA Crohn's: A 'Full-Body' Disease Avoiding Crohn’s Flares Health Benefits of Hemp Seed Oil Live Better With Psoriatic Disease Types of B-Cell Therapy for MS 5 Health Benefits of Hemp Why Prostate Cancer Spreads Living with Advanced Breast Cancer Where Breast Cancer Spreads 

Policies

About

WebMD Network

Our Apps

For Advertisers

    Privacy Policy
    Cookie Policy
    Editorial Policy
    Advertising Policy
    Correction Policy
    Terms of Use 

    Visit WebMD on Facebook
    Visit WebMD on Twitter
    Visit WebMD on Pinterest 

    TAG Registered Seal
    Honcode Seal

© 2005 - 2021 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.

See additional information.
Logo for WebMD


Nutrition
12 Beneficial Fruits to Eat During and After Cancer Treatment

It’s no secret that your diet can affect your risk of developing cancer.

Similarly, filling up on healthy foods is important if you are being treated for or recovering from cancer.

Certain foods, including fruits, contain health-promoting compounds that may slow tumor growth and reduce certain side effects of treatment to help ease your road to recovery.

Here are the 12 best fruits to eat during and after cancer treatment.
HEALTHLINE NEWSLETTER
Get our weekly Cancer Care email

Learn about emerging research, nutrition, prevention, chemo, and more — to support you through your cancer care journey.

Your privacy is important to us. Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.
Fruit choices for those with cancer 

When being treated for or recovering from cancer, your food choices are incredibly important.

Cancer treatments like chemotherapy and radiation can cause many side effects, which can be either worsened or improved by what you eat and drink.

Common side effects of chemotherapy and radiation include (1Trusted Source, 2Trusted Source):

    fatigue
    anemia
    nausea
    vomiting
    changes in appetite
    diarrhea
    constipation
    painful swallowing
    dry mouth
    mouth sores
    impaired focus
    mood changes

Filling your diet with nutritious foods, including fruits, helps supply your body with vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants throughout your cancer treatment.

However, it’s important to tailor your fruit choices to your specific symptoms.

For example, puréed fruits or fruit smoothies are a good option if you have difficulty swallowing, while fruits rich in fiber can help promote regularity if you are experiencing constipation.

You may also want to avoid certain fruits based on your symptoms. For example, citrus fruits may irritate mouth sores and worsen the feeling of dry mouth.

Lastly, whole fruits like apples, apricots, and pears are hard for some people with cancer to eat due to mouth sores, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth, or nausea.

    summary

    Some foods can either worsen or improve certain side effects of cancer treatments. It’s best to tailor your fruit choices to your specific symptoms.

1. Blueberries

Blueberries are a nutritional powerhouse, packing plenty of fiber, vitamin C, and manganese into each serving (3Trusted Source).

They’re also rich in antioxidants and have been well studied for their cancer-fighting effects (4Trusted Source, 5Trusted Source, 6Trusted Source).

Blueberries may also help alleviate chemo brain, a term used to describe problems with memory and concentration that some people experience during cancer treatment and recovery.

One small study found that drinking blueberry juice daily for 12 weeks improved memory and learning in older adults (7Trusted Source).

Similarly, a recent review of 11 studies reported that blueberries improved several aspects of brain function in children and adults (8Trusted Source).

While these studies did not include people undergoing cancer treatment, the findings may still apply.

    summary

    Blueberries may help fight cancer growth and improve chemo brain, a term used to describe impairments in memory and concentration due to cancer treatment.

FEATURED
Prostate Cancer: What to Know

Prostate cancer is a serious disease that affects thousands of men each year who are middle-aged or older. Learn about risk factors, prevention, stages, treatment, outlook and more.
2. Oranges

Oranges are a common type of citrus fruit, favored for their sweet taste, vibrant color, and stellar nutrient profile.

Just one medium orange can meet and exceed your daily needs for vitamin C, all while supplying other important nutrients like thiamine, folate, and potassium (9Trusted Source).

Vitamin C plays a key role in immunity and can help strengthen your immune system during and after cancer treatment (10Trusted Source, 11Trusted Source).

Research suggests that vitamin C may reduce the growth and spread of cancer cells and act as a therapeutic against certain types of cancer (12Trusted Source, 13Trusted Source).

Vitamin C from oranges can also boost the absorption of iron from foods. This helps protect against anemia, a common side effect of chemotherapy (14Trusted Source).

    summary

    Oranges are a great source of vitamin C, which can help strengthen your immune function, reduce cancer cell growth, and increase iron absorption.

3. Bananas

Bananas can be a great dietary addition for those recovering from cancer.

They’re not only easy to tolerate for those with swallowing difficulties but also a good source of many important nutrients, including vitamin B6, manganese, and vitamin C (15Trusted Source).

Additionally, bananas contain a type of fiber called pectin, which can be especially beneficial for those experiencing diarrhea caused by cancer treatments (16Trusted Source, 17Trusted Source).

Because bananas are rich in potassium, they can also help replenish electrolytes lost through diarrhea or vomiting.

Furthermore, test-tube studies have observed that pectin may help protect against the growth and development of colon cancer cells (18Trusted Source, 19Trusted Source, 20Trusted Source).

That said, more research is needed to determine whether the pectin found in bananas could slow cancer cell growth in humans.

    summary

    Bananas contain pectin, which can reduce diarrhea and has been shown to protect against colon cancer in test-tube studies.

4. Grapefruit

Grapefruit is a nutritious fruit loaded with antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals.

In addition to providing a hearty dose of vitamin C, provitamin A, and potassium, it’s rich in beneficial compounds like lycopene (21Trusted Source).

Lycopene is a carotenoid with potent anticancer properties. Some research suggests that it may reduce certain negative side effects of cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy and radiation (22Trusted Source).

One study in 24 adults found that drinking 17 ounces (500 ml) of juice from citrus fruits, including grapefruit, increased blood flow to the brain, which could help mitigate chemo brain (23Trusted Source).

Keep in mind that grapefruit might interfere with certain medications, so it’s best to talk to your doctor before adding it to your diet (24Trusted Source).

    summary

    Grapefruit is rich in antioxidants like lycopene, which has anticancer properties and may reduce some side effects of cancer treatments. It has also been shown to increase blood flow to the brain, which may ease chemo brain.

5. Apples

Apples are not only one of the most popular fruits but also one of the most nutritious.

Each serving is rich in fiber, potassium, and vitamin C — all of which can benefit cancer recovery (25Trusted Source).

The fiber found in apples can promote regularity and keep things moving through your digestive tract (26Trusted Source).

Potassium affects your fluid balance and can help prevent fluid retention, a common side effect of some types of chemotherapy (27Trusted Source, 28Trusted Source).

Lastly, vitamin C acts as an antioxidant to support immune function and fight cancer cell growth (10Trusted Source, 12Trusted Source).

    summary

    Apples are high in fiber, potassium, and vitamin C. Hence, they can help promote regularity, reduce fluid retention, and support immune health.

6. Lemons

Known for their sour taste and signature citrus scent, lemons deliver a burst of vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants in every serving.

They’re especially high in vitamin C, but also contain some potassium, iron, and vitamin B6 (29Trusted Source).

Test-tube studies have found that lemon extract may help prevent the growth of several types of cancer cells (30Trusted Source, 31Trusted Source).

Some animal studies also show that certain compounds in lemons, including limonene, could boost your mood and fight stress to combat depression and anxiety (32, 33Trusted Source, 34Trusted Source).

While more research is needed to confirm these findings in humans, enjoying lemons in your favorite drinks and desserts as part of a healthy diet could be beneficial.

    summary

    Lemons have been shown to inhibit the growth of cancer cells in test-tube studies. They also contain compounds that may boost your mood and reduce your stress levels.

7. Pomegranates

Pomegranates are delicious, nutritious, and brimming with health benefits, making them a great addition to any diet.

Like other fruits, they’re high in vitamin C and fiber but also pack plenty of vitamin K, folate, and potassium (35Trusted Source).

Plus, some research has found that eating pomegranates may improve your memory, which could help those affected by impairments in focus or concentration caused by chemotherapy (36Trusted Source).

A study in 28 people showed that drinking 8 ounces (237 ml) of pomegranate juice daily for 4 weeks led to increased brain activity and improved memory (37Trusted Source).

What’s more, animal studies have found that pomegranates may help reduce joint pain, another common side effect of cancer treatments like chemotherapy (38Trusted Source, 39Trusted Source, 40Trusted Source).

    summary

    Pomegranates may help improve memory and reduce joint pain, both of which are common side effects of cancer treatment.

8. Mulberries

Mulberries are a type of colorful fruit from the same family as figs and breadfruit.

They have been used to treat cancer in many traditional forms of medicine, and emerging research has begun to confirm their potential cancer-fighting effects (41Trusted Source, 42Trusted Source).

Mulberries are one of the few fruits rich in both vitamin C and iron, which may help protect against anemia caused by cancer treatments (43Trusted Source).

They’re also high in a type of plant fiber known as lignins, which have been shown to enhance immune function and kill cancer cells in test-tube studies (44Trusted Source).

Additional studies are needed to evaluate if eating mulberries in normal amounts may be beneficial during and after cancer treatment.

    summary

    Mulberries are high in vitamin C and iron, which can help reduce the risk of anemia. They also contain lignins, which may increase immune function and possess anticancer properties.

9. Pears

Pears are versatile, full of flavor, and easy to enjoy as part of a healthy diet.

They’re also highly nutritious, supplying a wealth of fiber, copper, vitamin C, and vitamin K in each serving (45Trusted Source).

Copper, in particular, plays a central role in immune function and reduces your body’s susceptibility to infection, which can be beneficial during cancer treatment (46Trusted Source).

Like other fruits, pears may contain powerful cancer-fighting compounds.

In fact, a study in over 478,000 people showed that a higher intake of apples and pears was associated with a lower risk of developing lung cancer (47Trusted Source).

Anthocyanins, a type of plant pigment found in pears, have also been linked to decreased cancer growth and tumor formation in test-tube studies (48Trusted Source, 49Trusted Source).

    summary

    Pears are rich in copper and contain anthocyanins, which have been shown to reduce cancer growth in test-tube studies.

10. Strawberries

Thanks to their fresh, sweet taste, strawberries are a favorite among fruit lovers.

They are rich in vitamin C, folate, manganese, and potassium, along with antioxidant compounds like pelargonidin (50Trusted Source, 51).

In addition to boasting an impressive nutrient profile, strawberries may offer several benefits specific to cancer recovery.

First, ripe strawberries are soft, making them suitable for those with mild swallowing difficulties (52).

What’s more, one animal study showed that administering freeze-dried strawberries to hamsters with oral cancer helped reduce tumor formation (53Trusted Source).

Another study in mice found that strawberry extract helped kill breast cancer cells and block tumor growth (54Trusted Source).

That said, high-quality studies are needed to determine if strawberries exhibit anticancer effects in humans when eaten as part of a healthy diet.

    summary

    Strawberries are rich in antioxidants and may help decrease cancer cell growth. Ripe berries are also soft, making them a good choice for those with mild swallowing difficulties.

11. Cherries

Cherries are a type of stone fruit that belongs to the same genus as peaches, plums, and apricots.

Each serving of cherries supplies a hearty dose of vitamin C, potassium, and copper (55Trusted Source).

These small fruits are also a good source of antioxidants like beta carotene, lutein, and zeaxanthin, all of which can benefit your health (56Trusted Source).

Many studies have found that the antioxidants found in cherries could help slow the growth of cancer cells.

For example, one test-tube study showed that cherry extract killed and stopped the spread of breast cancer cells (57Trusted Source).

Another animal study observed similar findings, noting that certain compounds found in tart cherries reduced the growth of colon cancer cells in mice (58Trusted Source).

However, these studies analyzed the effects of highly concentrated cherry extracts. Additional research is needed to evaluate if these findings also apply to humans when cherries are eaten in normal amounts.

    summary

    Cherries are rich in antioxidants and have been shown to decrease the growth of cancer cells in test-tube and animal studies.

12. Blackberries

Blackberries are a type of berry notable for their sweet, yet slightly bitter taste and deep purple hue.

This popular fruit is high in vitamin C, manganese, and vitamin K (59Trusted Source).

Blackberries also contain an array of antioxidants, including ellagic acid, gallic acid, and chlorogenic acid (60Trusted Source).

According to some research, eating berries may help protect against DNA damage, neutralize harmful compounds called free radicals, and slow the growth and spread of cancer cells (61Trusted Source).

Other test-tube and animal studies suggest that blackberries can preserve brain health and enhance memory, potentially preventing certain side effects of chemotherapy (62Trusted Source, 63Trusted Source, 64Trusted Source).

However, further studies are needed to determine if blackberries offer similar benefits in humans.

    summary

    Blackberries are rich in antioxidants that may help protect against cancer. Test-tube and animal studies show that they may also promote brain health, which could prevent certain side effects of cancer treatment.

The bottom line

Eating certain fruits can significantly affect your health, especially during and after cancer treatment.

Many fruits provide antioxidants to help fight the growth of cancer cells and may even offer other health benefits to help ease certain side effects of treatment.

oEnjoying these healthy fruits in combination with a well-rounded diet can keep you feeling your best and get you started on the road to recovery.
Written by Rachael Link, MS, RD on August 28, 2019
related stories

6 Foods That May Increase Your Risk of Cancer
Lung Cancer Diet
Maintaining a Healthy Diet with Breast Cancer
Cancer and Diet 101: How What You Eat Can Influence Cancer

    These Foods Are Increasing Your Risk for Cancer — What to Eat Instead

Read this next

6 Foods That May Increase Your Risk of Cancer
Medically reviewed by Kim Rose-Francis RDN, CDCES, CNSC, LD

Some types of foods and cooking methods can produce carcinogens, or compounds that increase the risk of cancer. Learn more about the foods to avoid.
READ MORE
Lung Cancer Diet
Medically reviewed by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD

Eating healthy may help enhance your overall health, help improve energy levels, and give you more strength during lung cancer treatment treatment…
READ MORE
Maintaining a Healthy Diet with Breast Cancer
Medically reviewed by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD

Proper nutrition helps support your body during breast cancer treatment. If you’re having difficulty eating enough, try these tips to get more…
READ MORE
Cancer and Diet 101: How What You Eat Can Influence Cancer
Written by Mary Jane Brown, PhD, RD (UK)

Growing evidence points to certain dietary habits increasing or decreasing cancer risk. This article covers everything you need to know about the link…
READ MORE
These Foods Are Increasing Your Risk for Cancer — What to Eat Instead

Researchers say the diet of many Americans is increasing their risk for developing a variety of cancers.
READ MORE
Does Diet Affect Your Prostate Cancer Outlook?
Medically reviewed by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD

What you eat may affect your outlook for prostate cancer. Proactive dietary changes may help improve your outlook. Learn more about the connection…
READ MORE
What You Need to Know About MDS and Anemia

Learn about the relationship between myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and anemia, including symptoms to watch out for and treatment options.
READ MORE
Excess Weight May Increase Your Risk for Endometrial Cancer: Here are the Signs

New research has found that in people with uteruses excess weight nearly doubles an individual's risk of endometrial cancer, also known as womb cancer.
READ MORE
Common Symptoms of Cancer in Men: From Early to Advanced

Knowing the early symptoms of cancer can help you seek early treatment to improve your chances of remission.
READ MORE

    After Cancer Scare, ‘Harlem’ Star Meagan Good Is Raising Her Voice

    Here’s what the actor and health advocate wants women to know about endometrial cancer.
    READ MORE

Get our wellness newsletter

Filter out the noise and nurture your inbox with health and wellness advice that’s inclusive and rooted in medical expertise.

Your privacy is important to us. Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.

    About Us
    Contact Us
    Privacy Policy
    Privacy Settings
    Advertising Policy
    Health Topics

    Medical Affairs
    Content Integrity
    Newsletters
    © 2005-2022 Healthline Media a Red Ventures Company. All rights reserved. Our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. Healthline Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. See additional information.

AboutCareersAdvertise with us

OUR BRANDS
Healthline
Medical News Today
Greatist
Psych Central



THE COMPLEMENTARY CANCER CHARITY ABOUT US CONTACT US PERSONAL PRESCRIPTION CANCERactive Community Login BLOG

    Facebook Page Instagram Page Twitter Feed Youtube Channel 

Chris Wollams
Cancer Active Logo
Cancer Active Donate Banner
Search

    HOME YOUR CANCER PREVENTION RESEARCH LIBRARY BLOG RAINBOW DIET SUPPORT US NATURAL SELECTION SHOP 

prevention  >  the-uk-number-1-cancer-prevention-charity  >  the-canceractive-3d-approach-to-cancer-prevention  >  cancer-prevention-diet-and-lifestyle
Eating Vegetables and Fruit to beat cancer
4 May 2010
Cancer Prevention - Diet and Lifestyle

Recent research has shown that eating 5 portions of fruit and vegetables a day is linked to a 2.5 per cent reduction in the risk of cancer. This ’5 a day’ plan originated in 1990 when the World Health Organisation suggested it to help prevent cancer and other chronic illnesses. The 5-a-day plan has been promoted in America for over 20 years and in Britain for ten.

The new research study led by researchers from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, analysed 500,000 Europeans from 10 countries and showed that an extra two portions of fruit and vegetables each day could prevent 2.6 per cent of cancers in men and 2.3 per cent of cases in women. (European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition). Lifestyle factors such as exercise and smoking were accounted for in the research.

The majority of media commentators have seized on these figures, seeing them as low and concluding that Government and cancer charities’ advice is poor.
Some experts are not so negative. Dr Rachel Thompson, Science Programme Manager for World Cancer Research Fund, said: This study suggests that if we all ate an extra two portions of fruits and vegetables a day, about 2.5 per cent of cancers could be prevented. Given the fact that there are many types of cancer where there is no evidence eating fruits and vegetables affects risk, it is not surprising that the overall percentage is quite low. But for the UK, this works out as about 7,000 cases a year, which is a significant number.

Food, Glorious food time to ’come clean’

CANCERactive’s Chris Woollams commented, Research like this tends to prompt quick, headline-grabbing responses, when in fact it needs to be put in the context of other knowledge and research findings. For example:


    We already know that people are completely confused about what a ’portion’ of fruit and vegetables means. Research showed that in the USA, people considered fried chips (French Fries) to be a ’vegetable’. Equally 5 helpings of rice or potatoes were also seen in another study to ’fit the requirement’. This is nonsense.

    We advocate that nothing beats fruit and vegetables for providing not just the vitamins and minerals that are essential to nourishing your body but co-factors, enzymes and other essential building blocks like amino acids. But it is quite clear that
    a) Research shows mass market produce is weaker in providing important levels of, say, vitamins and minerals than it was 100 years ago as our soils become depleted and crop rotation ceases to be the norm. And,
    b) Research followed up by the European Union experts resulted in conclusions that pesticides, for example, ’can be harmful to health and be a cause of cancer’. CANCERactive only recently reported on the effects of pesticides causing ’sticky proteins’ (MUGS) and increasing the risk of Multiple Myeloma in the over 50’s. The benefits of mass market vegetables and fruits may be being negated by the chemicals . And,
    c) Research shows that organic food provides significant levels of cancer fighting natural compounds, hardly present in mass market produce (For example, resveratrol formed in grape skins in response to attacks by moulds and fungus. These are not present when fungicides are used to spray the crop)

    We advocate the Mediterranean Diet and focusing on variety as particularly important when consuming fruit and vegetables. No one natural compound, any more than one single drug is ever likely to prevent or beat the multi-step process that is cancer. However individual steps have been shown to be neutralised by individual natural compounds. For example carotenoids (in red and yellow peppers), indole 3 carbinol (in broccoli), anthocyanins (in beetroot, red plums, aubergines), phenols (in green tea, olive oil), allycin (in garlic, onions, leeks), curcumin (turmeric), and polysaccharides (in mushrooms) and other natural compounds have all been shown to act against aspects of cancer.

    The role of beneficial bacteria has been shown in Clinical Trials to be crucial to your good health, as they alone control the release of important cancer-fighting compounds like sodium butyrate, vitamin K, biotin, folic acid and vitamin B-12 from your foods. People on drugs, especially antibiotics, or who have excessive yeasts and consume fruits during the day, will worsen the performance of these beneficial bacteria.  The research did not use controls for such groups.

    We have long maintained that the stance of Health Bodies and Cancer Charities who suggest that 50 per cent of all cancers are your own fault so don’t smoke, eat 5 portions of fruit and vegetables per day, take exercise, stay out of the sun, and avoid excess alcohol is not just nave but misses crucial possible causes of cancer completely. Many cancers have been linked to chemical toxins be they work place, environmental, pesticides, or even in your household and personal care products. This new research has to be put in context. Why would people expect 5 portions of fruit and vegetables per day to prevent cancer if the cause was actually an Electromagnetic or chemical toxin? This research highlights the need for leading cancer charities to ’come clean’ on this issue. 


Fighting cancer

To experts at CANCERactive this research just highlights how there is no single disease called cancer your cancer is as individual as you are. Some cancers (for example, some colorectal cancers) may be caused by an excess of fatty foods and alcohol, whilst omega 3 in fish oils and vitamin D from sunshine can help prevent their growth. Neither is strongly found in mass market produce.

However, in other cancers fruit and vegetables may help: For example, Harvard research has shown the benefits of natural lycopene from cooked tomatoes and indole 3 carbinol from broccoli to be of benefit to preventing (and even reducing the symptoms of) some prostate cancers. However, other cancers like some lymphomas, some multiple myelomas and some leukaemia cases are definitely increased by exposure to chemicals so it is hard to see how eating fruit and vegetables could ever prevent or reverse those.

Frankly, if out of the total number of cancer cases in the UK - currently 2 million people have the disease - if 2.5 per cent could have prevented it even by eating 2 extra portions of potatoes, white rice and mass market produce a day it is a start that’s 50,000 people in Britain today, without the worry of cancer and a huge saving off the NHS health and drugs bill.  To put this in context, ’2.5 per cent of people beating cancer’ is a higher number of people than was found to have benefited from all chemotherapy drugs in both Australia and America, according to an Australian analysis of research covered in Cancer Watch a couple of years ago. And Cancer Charities and Oncologists endorse and recommend these expensive chemotherapy drugs.

Furthermore, imagine what could happen if people understood more about nourishment and exactly what vegetables to eat talking about a Rainbow Diet would help; as would coming clean about the benefits of organic food and natural compounds. But cancer prevention education needs to start in schools. It is something we proposed, complete with lessons in detail, but the UK Government funders turned us down.

Other articles of interest

Cancer Prevention a 3D approach

Resveratrol

Indole 3 carbinol

Vitamin D

Vitamin K

Beneficial Bacteria and their role in vitamin release

Medicinal mushrooms

Garlic

The Rainbow Diet and how it can help you beat cancer
STAY CONNECTED
facebook
  Fans
LIKE
twitter
  Followers
FOLLOW
youtube
  Subscribers
SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe (Free e-Newsletter)
Join Chris'
Newsletter
Market Place
Booking.com
Booking.com
BEST PRICES GUARANTEED on over 2.6 million Hotels Worldwide. Instant confirmation. Book now - pay when you stay. 24/7 customer service. Villas, Apartments B&B too. Save a further 10% with Genius.
Click HERE now
Smile with Amazon
Smile with Amazon
If you are thinking of buying anything from Amazon, buy it through Amazon Smile, select Cancer Active as your charity and you will be supporting us at no extra cost.
Click HERE now
Ziffit
Ziffit
Fundraising just got easier! You can now donate your unwanted books, games, CDs, and DVDs to support our work. Download the Ziffit app and choose CANCERactive at the checkout.
Declutter your home and donate with Ziffit
RECOMMENDED   BOOKS
The Rainbow Diet and how it can help you beat cancer
The Rainbow Diet and how it can help you beat cancer
"At last the definitive book on a diet to fight cancer". Mrs BS Devon.
FIND OUT MORE
Everything you need to know to help you beat cancer
Everything you need to know to help you beat cancer
"This book is head and shoulders above the rest". Geoffrey Boycott
FIND OUT MORE
Oestrogen - The Killer In Our Midst" 3rd Edition by Chris Woollams.
Oestrogen - The Killer In Our Midst" 3rd Edition by Chris Woollams.
"Learn how to take control of your oestrogen levels"
FIND OUT MORE
Rainbow Recipes
Rainbow Recipes
A recipe book by Chris Woollams and Barbara Cox
FIND OUT MORE
Heal Your Gut
Heal Your Gut
A real paradigm shift - this book will help you really understand exactly what to do to be in great health.
FIND OUT MORE
Probio8
Probio8
Active bacteria including L. rhamnosus and B. infantis for gut health
BUY HERE
Para-Free plus
Para-Free plus
Triple action kills parasites, yeasts and a colon cleanse
BUY HERE

    Information
    ABOUT US
    CONTACT
    PERSONAL PRESCRIPTION

    CANCERactive
    Support Us
    Sitemap
    Privacy Policy

CANCERactive Registered Charity No. 1102413 | CANCERactive Ltd VAT Registration No. 867 0340 22
The CANCERactive name and logo are registered trade marks

© Copyright 2022 CANCERactive. All Rights Reserved. This content may be copied in full, with copyright, contact, creation and information intact, without specific permission, when used only in a not-for-profit format and provided, where used to publish on a website, that website provides a link to www.canceractive.com. If any other use is desired, permission in writing from CANCERactive is required.
[Privacy Badger has replaced this Pinterest button]



New Health Advisor
New Health Advisor for Daily Health Care.
Contact Us

    Home
    Sex & Relationship
    Blood, Heart & Circulation
    Women's Health
    Life
    Digestive System
    Bone, Joint & Muscle
    More...

Foods That Fight Infection

When you have an infection, you will normally head to the doctor’s office for a prescription. But, do you know that antibiotics can do as much harm as good? While they destroy infection-causing bacteria, they also kill beneficial bacteria within your system. This exposes you to further infections. Many research studies have established that certain foods have immunity enhancing properties. Following are top foods which fight infection.
Foods That Fight Infection
1.     Garlic

Studies show that garlic has a wide range of antimicrobial properties. It is antifungal, antiprotozoan and antiviral. It can treat more than 70 infections, including dysentery, diarrhea, encephalitis and tuberculosis. Garlic may be taken internally by chewing or drinking after crushing and mixing with water. 
2.     Cabbage

Cabbage is one of the most popular vegetables. But, besides this, cabbage has powerful antibacterial properties. Tests have shown that cabbage juice destroys bacteria such as H. pylori which is associated with stomach ulcers. Cabbage juice is also beneficial in treating duodenal and gastric ulcers. 180 ml of fresh cabbage juice mixed with one teaspoon of honey and taken twice a day is effective treatment of these ulcers in addition to some bladder infections and obstructive jaundice.
3.     Turmeric

It has antiseptic and inflammatory properties which help in the treatment of rhinitis, throat infections, colds, ringworms and scabies among others. Internally, half a teaspoon of turmeric powder can be mixed with three to five tablespoons of milk to treat many of the above conditions. Other methods of treatment include inhaling the smoke from burning turmeric to treat rhinitis and a running nose.
4.     Ginger

A popular root spice for thousands of years, ginger has been one of the foods that fight infection. Its antibiotic qualities have been used in the treatment of infections such as chest congestion, whooping cough, diarrhea and cholera. One teaspoon of fresh ginger juice is mixed with one cup of fenugreek decoction and a few teaspoons of honey to make an effective expectorant and diaphoretic.
5.     Yogurt

Yogurt or curd has antibacterial qualities. During fermentation, beneficial bacteria multiply and predigest milk protein, making it easier to assimilate into the body. When these bacteria get into the gut, they destroy or inhibit growth of infection-causing bacteria. Yogurt helps protect the body against infections such as diarrhea, dysentery and appendicitis.
6.     Honey

Honey has both antibiotic and antifungal properties. It fights infections such as throat inflammation, ulceration and sore tongue. Gargling honey with water is an effective relief from hoarseness. To treat oral ulceration, mix 150 grams of honey with 10 grams of glycerin and 20 grams of borax powder and apply locally twice or thrice daily.
7.     Coconut

Coconut is a rich food source of many essential nutrients. It is also one of the important foods that fight infection. Coconut water from the immature green coconut treats infections such as cholera and intestinal worms. It also neutralizes blood acidosis and stabilizes electrolyte levels. To benefit from the antimicrobial qualities of coconut, drink a glass of coconut water two or three times in a day. 
8.     Lemon

Lemon is a powerful antibacterial fruit that treats throat infection and cholera among others. Taking lemon juice regularly can protect against cholera. For the treatment of throat infections, roast a ripe lemon in its skin until it starts to crack. Take one teaspoon of the juice mixed with some honey once every one to two hours. You can also drink this lemon juice mixed with water and a little honey.
9.     Pineapple

This popular tropical fruit contains bromelain which has powerful antibacterial properties to help fight throat infections, diphtheria and even tuberculosis. To treat throat infections, use pineapple juice as a mouthwash. For tuberculosis, the patient should take one glass of pineapple juice every day.
10.  Onion

This popular vegetable is also one of the foods that fight infection. Onion is both antibiotic and antiseptic and protects against and treats infections of the ear, teeth, mouth and gum. It is most effective when taken raw. During World War II, onions were used to treat wounded Russian soldiers. Chewing onions regularly clears oral infections including tooth and gum problems. Onion juice drops administered three times daily can treat ear infections.   
11.  Echinacea

The Echinacea herb strengthens the immune system, thereby protecting against many infections. Active ingredients in Echinacea, including polysaccharides and flavonoids, have powerful therapeutic properties that help treat various infectious conditions. The upper parts of the herb contain the most benefits.
12. Other Effective Foods

    Carrot. The carrot, a rich source of the antioxidant beta-carotene, is a protective food against eye, throat, tonsil and sinus infections.
    Berries. Berries such as cranberries, blackberries and strawberries have powerful antioxidant properties, making them foods that fight infection and protect the body from cancers, heart disease and other inflammatory conditions.
    Fatty Fish. Fatty fish such as salmon and tuna are rich in omega-3 fatty acids which help protect against inflammatory conditions such as heart disease.
    Tomatoes. Tomatoes contain vitamins, minerals and the antioxidant lycopene, which helps protect the body against cancers.
    Nuts. Nuts contain minerals, vitamins, fiber and mono and polyunsaturated fats which help prevent conditions such as heart disease.  
    Coconut Oil. Coconut oil contains lauric, a medium chain fatty acid that gives coconut its antibacterial properties.
    Fermented Foods. Besides their ordinary benefits, fermented foods have probiotic qualities that help promote immunity and protect the body against bacterial infections.
    Horseradish. Horseradish contains antimicrobial properties that make it one of the important foods that fight infections of the lungs and UTIs.

Categories

    Sex & Relationship
    Blood, Heart & Circulation
    Women's Health
    Life
    Digestive System
    Bone, Joint & Muscle
    Men's Health
    Ear, Nose & Throat
    Allergies
    Skin Care
    Pregnancy and Parenting
    Food & Nutrition
    Fitness & Wellness
    Mental Health
    Kidney & Urinary System
    Hair & Nails
    Pets and Animals
    Oral Health
    Pain Management
    Immune System
    Eye Health
    Drugs and Addiction
    Children's Health
    Respiratory System
    Brain & Nerves
    Nursing and Care
    Miscellaneous
    Medical Profession
    Endocrine System
    Excretory System
    VIEW ALL...

Similar Topics

    Best Healing Foods After Surgery

Same Category

    Know the 12 Symptoms of Not Eating Enough
    11 Fruits Good for Diabetics
    Vitamin C with Rose Hips
    How Can You Know Whether Chicken Goes Bad?
    Are Pickles Good For You?
    How Much Sodium Is Too Much?
    Kale and Thyroid Problems
    How to Eat Grapefruit

 
 

Copyright WWW.NEWHEALTHADVISOR.ORG © 2020, All rights Reserved. Last Updated 01 May, 2022.



LIVE TV
9+
LIVE TV
9+
India
Business
Viral News
Health
Education
Sports
Tech
Cryptonow
Mirror Now
Cities
♪ Podcasts
‣ LIVE TV
Videos
World
Latest News
Auto
Spirituality

    News
    Health News

Five fruits and vegetables that fight colds and flu
Updated Aug 31, 2017 | 13:04 IST | Times Now Bureau
Here are five fruits and vegetables that can fight off germs, boost immune system as well as ward off the symptoms of cold and flu.
Photo Credit: Indiatimes, Representative Image

New Delhi: Many people don’t usually pick up a capsule when they have a cold or flu. Instead they gorge on foods to get relief from colds and flu. But picking the right foods can benefit and even speed up the recovery process.

Here are five fruits and vegetables that can fight off germs, boost immune system as well as ward off the symptoms of cold and flu:
SHOW FULL STORY
Pumpkins

Pumpkins are more than a tasty vegetable, in fact this humble food is packed with vitamins and minerals that boost immunity. Research suggests that the vitamin A in pumpkin may help keep the respiratory system healthy, which can be particularly beneficial when suffering from a cold or flu.
Broccoli

The beautiful, leafy, green veggie is packed with vitamins A, C and E, and glucosinolates - a stimulant for the immune system. Including broccoli is one of the best way to find the perfect source of antioxidants, lowering your risk of a cold or flu.
Papayas

Papayas are an excellent source of beta-carotene and vitamin C and E, all of which can help reduce inflammation throughout the body, lessening the effects of asthma. The fruit helps to enhance the immunity of the body and prevent cold, cough, flu and fever.
Apples

Apples are considered to be the most popular source of antioxidants in our diet. Rich in vitamin C, apples are greatly helpful in treating colds. Apples are packed with protective flavonoids, which may help prevent heart disease and cancer.
Kiwi

Kiwi is named as one of the healthiest fruits in the world. Containing around 50% of the recommended daily vitamin C intake, this delicious fruit can keep your immune system healthy and help you fight the flu.
Viral News
MP Board Result 2022
LIC IPO
Covid Vaccine for Children

Get the Latest health news, healthy diet, weight loss, Yoga, and fitness tips, more updates on Times Now

    VIDEOS 

Oats Rava Idli Burger | Homemade Idli Burger | Healthy Burgers
Healthy Vegan Butter 3 Ways | Peanut, Cashew & Almond Butter Recipe | The Foodie
Chicken Thukpa Recipe | How To Make Chicken Thukpa | Yummy Tibetan Noodle Soup | Chicken Noodle Soup
Borivali Chowpatty | Bahubali Gola | Pizza Blast Sandwich | Mumbai Street Food | Foodie's Day Out
Chicken Hot Pan Recipe | Hot & Spicy Chicken recipe | Easy Chicken Starters | Chicken Meatballs

    LATEST NEWS 

Jacqueline Fernandez alleges receiving expensive gifts from Sukesh Chandrasekhar: 'Gucci gym wear, Chanel bags, private jet rides'
Kerala: PC George taken into custody for controversial remarks against Muslims
Delhi-NCR 9th in Asia Pacific in occupancy cost for prime office space; Mumbai 15th
After UGC and AICTE, now NMC warns students against studying in Pakistan
Don’t insist on delivering aid package to Sri Lanka directly, MEA will ensure smooth passage: TN BJP to DMK govt

    Latest health News 

Doctors baffled as man watching TV feels strange neck pain, left paralysed for life
It's time for voodles! Bid goodbye to wheat-based noodles with these vegetable based spaghetti, pasta types
High-fiber diet reduces risk of dementia: Study
Study: Check your medicine box; an ingredient in paracetamol can cause heart attack
Unintentional burnout - These habits could be draining you mentally

    Elections
    About Us
    Contact Us
    Privacy Policy
    Reference Interconnect Offers
    Disclaimer
    Terms of Use
    Complaint Redressal
    Syndication
    Editorial Guidelines

© 2022 Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
LIVE TV

    Home
    India
    Business
    Viral News
    Health
    Education
    Sports
    Tech
    Cryptonow
    Mirror Now
    Cities
    ♪ Podcasts
    ‣ LIVE TV
    Videos
    World
    Latest News
    Auto
    Spirituality

मराठी हिंदी




ThePlantWay.com

Healthy, happy, ethical

    Home
    Health
    Fitness
    Lifestyle
    Infographics
    Recipes
    Impact Calculator

You are here: Home / Health / 15 Anti-Inflammatory Vegetables and Fruits
Health
15 Anti-Inflammatory Vegetables and Fruits

We are what we eat. Bad diet only contributes to inflamation, but also causes disease that creates inflammation in the body.

In this post we'll look at the best types of food for reducing and eliminating unwanted inflammation in the body, so you can change your shopping list to one that promotes a healthy body balance.

Content:

    What is Inflammation?
    Problem Foods & Causes
    Anti-Inflammatory Diet & Disease
    Best Veg & Fruit
    Summary

anti-inflammatory-vegetables-fruits
What is Inflammation?

It is important to note that inflammation is not always bad.

In fact, inflammation plays a vital role in fighting off threats and helping the body heal itself.

Inflammation is the body’s response to microbial, autoimmune, metabolic or physical attack, including burns and physical trauma.

During the inflammation process, white blood cells are released to sites of infection and injury, where they emit waves of chemicals that can kill germs outright.

The release of these chemicals increases blood flow and results in the redness you see, and the warming sensation you feel, on the inflamed area of an injury.

Acute inflammation usually lasts for a few hours, but can be up to a few days. The problem occurs, however; when the inflammatory process becomes a constant.

And diet plays a huge role in this.
What Types of Food Cause Inflammation?

When this bodily response remains, it leads to chronic inflammation.

Over time, chronic inflammation can damage healthy cells, tissue, and organs and can trigger the development of a long list of diseases and disorders such as asthma, arthritis, atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, and heart disease.

Indeed, obesity and its relative type 2 diabetes are at epidemic proportions across the Western world. And what's the one thing that connects them? You guessed it, inflammation.

The good news is that diet can also help reduce inflammation in those suffering disease.

If you have chronic inflammation or want to follow an anti-inflammatory diet, you should steer away from the following:

    Processed foods
    Refined carbohydrates
    Oils and fried food
    Pre-made desserts
    Soda and other sugary beverages
    Alcohol
    Meat and processed meat
    Foods high in salt or sugar

Aside from increasing the level of inflammation in your body, in excess these foods can also contribute to weight gain/obesity, which is a risk factor for inflammation.
Conditions Helped by an Anti-Inflammatory Diet

One of the most effective and powerful weapons you can take advantage of to fight inflammation does not come from the drugstore but the grocery shop.

We are what we eat. By eating a plant-based, whole foods (PBWF) diet, we can ensure we aren't unnaturally causing inflammation in the body, and in turn help the body heal itself in the process.

A diet high in fruits, vegetables, legumes, whole grains, and nuts is recommended to reduce inflammation.

Conditions that cause chronic inflammation or worsen with poor dietary habits will benefit from a change in dietary habits. These conditions include:

    Asthma
    Colitis
    Crohn’s disease
    Esophagitis
    Hashimoto’s disease
    IBS or inflammatory bowel disease
    Lupus
    Metabolic syndrome
    Psoriasis
    Rheumatoid arthritis

An additional benefit is that a diet high in antioxidants may also help lessen the risk of certain types of cancer.
15 Anti-Inflammatory Vegetables & Fruits

Choosing anti-inflammatory foods to include in your every day diet will reduce your risk of disease. The following is a list of the foods scientifically proven to reduce inflammation in the body.

    Berries

Berries are rich in fiber, minerals, and vitamins. They also contain polyphenols – micronutrients packed with antioxidants. One of these antioxidants is called anthocyanins, which are known to reduce inflammation and reduce risk of disease (1).

In one study, overweight adult males and females who ate strawberries showed lower levels of inflammatory markers associated with heart disease (2).

Another study in men showed that the consumption of blueberries increased NK cell counts. Natural killer (NK) cells are produced by the body to help maintain a strong immune system. (3).

    Broccoli

Closely related to cauliflower and cabbage, broccoli is a superfood because not only is it low in calories but also packed with nutrients and antioxidants.

The antioxidants in Broccoli have anti-inflammatory effects and, according to research, consuming cruciferous vegetables like broccoli is linked to a reduced risk of cancer and cardiovascular diseases (4, 5).

    Avocados

Avocados are super popular for a reason: they don’t just taste good, they are an excellent source of vitamins, magnesium, potassium, and fiber. Avocados also contain omega-3 fatty acids and carotenoids.

AV119, a compound found in avocados, has anti-inflammatory effects (6). Additionally, one study suggests that the tocopherols and carotenoids in avocados are associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer (7).

    Peppers

Peppers, specifically bell and chili peppers, are low in calories and rich sources of vitamin C. Other nutrients provided by peppers include vitamins A, E, and K1, fiber, folic acid, and potassium.

Further, peppers contain anti-oxidants that help fight excessive inflammation (8, 9).

    Grapes

Grapes offer a variety of health benefits. They are an excellent source of fiber, minerals, and vitamins. Like berries, grapes contain anthocyanins, which act as anti-inflammatory agents.

According to a study conducted on people with heart disease, taking grape extract daily helps decrease inflammation and increase the levels of adiponectin, which at low levels are related to increased cancer risk and weight gain (10).

    Tomatoes

Speaking of superfoods, no one will forget tomatoes. This fruit is rich in many nutrients such as potassium, vitamin C, and the phytochemical lycopene.

An antioxidant, lycopene is associated with a range of health benefits, including prevention of cancer and heart disease and anti-inflammatory activity (11, 12).

Want to get the most lycopene out of your tomatoes? Eat them with olives or avocados, since lycopene is better absorbed with fat (13).

    Cherries

Like berries and grapes, cherries are delicious fruits loaded with vitamins and antioxidants, such as anthocyanins fight inflammation in the body (14). A study suggests that consuming sweet cherries may lower inflammation markers in the body (15).

    Pineapple

Pineapples are tropical fruits fully loaded with vitamins, antioxidants, and enzymes. They contain a specific enzyme found in the stem and juice, bromelain, which helps combat inflammation (16, 17).

Moreover, this enzyme is a natural digestive aid and helps alleviate bloating, IBS, ulcerative colitis, and other colonic inflammation (18, 19).

    Papaya

Another tropical fruit that can help reduce inflammation is papaya. This fruit contain high levels of vitamins A and C and folate.

There is a specific digestive protein in papaya responsible for the fruit’s anti-inflammatory effects – papain (20). According to Nutrition Review, proteolytic enzymes such as papain help decrease inflammation (21).

Papain is highly concentrated in unripe papaya.

    Seaweed

Let’s not forget those wonderful sea vegetables. Seaweed like kelp and Alaria contain fucoidan, a complex carbohydrate known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects (22, 23).

    Kale

Probably one of the most nutritious green vegetables around is kale. A member of the cabbage family, it is low in calories but rich in vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, thus offering plenty of health benefits.

Green leafy vegetables like kale in your diet are linked to a decreased risk of heart disease (24). Kale also contains flavonoids, which are found to have anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory effects and prevent coronary heart disease (25).

    Spinach

Spinach is loaded with nutrients and low in calories. It is rich in antioxidants such as kaempferol and quercetin. These beneficial compounds help reduce inflammation (26) and may prevent cancer (27).

    Beans and nuts

Beans and nuts are great anti-inflammatory foods typically recommended for people with rheumatoid arthritis. Kidney beans and red beans contain high levels of fiber and protein and can lower inflammation (28).

Nuts are also packed with many nutrients and antioxidants. Walnuts, specifically, contain polyphenols, which are associated with the reduction of inflammation in the body (29).

    Brussel Sprouts

We aren't done with green leafy vegetables yet. Brussel sprouts are an excellent source of fiber and omega-3 fatty acids.

Brussel sprouts are high in antioxidants, especially in kaempferol. According to some test-tube studies, kaempferol may inhibit the growth of cancer cells and reduce inflammation (30, 31).

    Carrots

These crunchy root vegetables are low in calories but a great source of fiber, potassium, vitamin K, and antioxidants. They are also rich in beta-carotene, an antioxidant that can be converted to vitamin A by your body.

Studies show that the beta-carotene content of carrots has anti-inflammatory effects due to its antioxidant properties (32, 33).
In Summary

The science is clear: if you want to keep inflammation to a minimum, eat plenty of fruit, vegetables (green, in particular), beans and nuts. A plant-based diet is anti-inflammatory by default, and promotes a sustainable, healthy weight.

Of course, if you get ill, or injure yourself, the body responds by creating inflammation to protect you from infection from foreign organisms, such as bacteria and viruses.

However, you don't want to promote inflammation unnecessarily. So watch what you eat by excluding those foods we mentioned earlier, and by including those on our ‘good to eat' list above.
The Plant Wellness Newsletter
Plant-based health & lifestyle tips to your inbox.
Similar Posts You'll Love!

    Why Meat Eaters Get Angry With Vegans (I Know, I Was One)
    Why Meat Eaters Get Angry With Vegans (I Know, I Was One)
    20 Best Vegan Egg Alternatives for Eggless Baking & Cooking
    20 Best Vegan Egg Alternatives for Eggless Baking & Cooking
    15 Anti-Cancer Plant Foods – As Proven by Science
    15 Anti-Cancer Plant Foods – As Proven by Science
    Fantastically Fluffy Vegan Pancakes
    Fantastically Fluffy Vegan Pancakes

    Share on Facebook Email Share on Twitter 

About Peter

An advocate of a plant-based lifestyle, Peter is passionate about using science-based nutrition to prevent & reverse disease.
Comments

    Greg says

    Great article! I will be adding more of these in my diet.
    Reply

    Mar 15, 2020 at 1:23 pm

        Peter says

        Thanks Greg. We could all do with more of these fruits and vegetables in our diet.
        Reply

        Mar 15, 2020 at 2:49 pm

Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment *

Name *

Email *

Website

 
Notify me when new comments are added.

Get our vegan lifestyle newsletter
Useful monthly tips for plant-based living, to your inbox
Most Popular Posts
> 21 Vegan Christmas Gift Ideas
> 32 Reasons To Give Up Meat
> Why Dairy Is So Bad For Health
> Best Sources of Iron
> 50 Sources of Vegan Protein
> The Truth About Soy
> The Truth About B12
> 7 Must-Watch Vegan Documentaries
> Going Vegan: 60 Massive Benefits
> Guide to Buying Cruelty-Free Makeup
> Where to Buy Vegan Supplements
> Best Vegan Cookbooks Ever
Popular Recipes
vegan pumpkin pie
vegan-lemon-tofu-noodles
vegan-pasta-dish-mushroom
vegan health supplements
Join the conversation

    Peter on Vegans Are Hypocrites! The ‘All or Nothing’ Argument
    Janet on Vegans Are Hypocrites! The ‘All or Nothing’ Argument
    Rebecca on Vegans Are Hypocrites! The ‘All or Nothing’ Argument
    Peter on Vegans Are Hypocrites! The ‘All or Nothing’ Argument
    Janet on Vegans Are Hypocrites! The ‘All or Nothing’ Argument
    Peter on Why We Should Legalize the Sale & Consumption of Dog Meat
    Eden on Why We Should Legalize the Sale & Consumption of Dog Meat

Info

    Privacy Policy
    Website Terms
    Affiliate Disclaimer

More

    About ThePlantWay
    Contact
    Newsletter Archive

Copyright © 2022. The Plant Way. All rights reserved. Our content does not constitute a medical consultation. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis.


	

    Skip to main content
    Skip to secondary menu
    Skip to primary sidebar
    Skip to footer

BlackDoctor.org
Where Wellness & Culture Connect

Where Wellness & Culture Connect

    Health Conditions
    Wellness
    Lifestyle
    Longevity
    BDO TV
    Find A Doctor
    Subscribe

Home / Health Conditions / COVID-19
10 Fruits and Vegetables That Boost Your Immune System

6. Spinach  

Your mother was right about eating your roughage. Spinach not only tastes great, but it has flavonoids, carotenoids, and a host of vitamins that help keep your immune system strong. 
7. Apples 

An apple a day keeps the doctor away. We’ve heard it, but why do we say it? Because apples are chock full of vitamins and minerals that keep our immune systems supported.  
8. Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet Potatoes have a lot of the same vitamins and minerals as carrots, which is why they both share that rich orange color. So eat your colors in fruits and vegetables. 
9. Poultry 

Ever wonder why we eat chicken noodle soup when we don’t feel well? Chicken has protein, which is full of zinc. Zinc helps build T-Cells that help fight infection. 
You May Also Like
15 Natural Remedies for Aches and Pains
10. Citrus Fruits 

Oranges, grapefruit, lemons and other citrus fruits are full of none other than Vitamin C, which builds up your immune system all the more. 

At a time when fighting illness and infection is of the utmost importance, these fruits and vegetables are just what you need to give your immune system an all-natural boost. 

July 29, 2021 by Gabrielle Willis
Previous page
Read Next Article
The Latest In COVID-19
Moderna Asks FDA to Authorize Its COVID Vaccine For Children Under 6
Are We Out of the Pandemic? Here’s What Dr. Fauci Says
FDA Approves First COVID Treatment for Use in Kids
Confused About COVID-19 Boosters? Experts Answer 6 Common Questions
Can Wearables Track the Severity of COVID Symptoms?
Black Children Accounted for About One-Third of COVID Hospitalizations
Primary Sidebar
Subscribe to our newsletter

Never miss a beat. From articles about the latest trends in Health & Wellness to everyday topics that affect you!
Poll
What are your thoughts on genetic testing?

    I've participated in it
    I'm familiar with it
    I don't know what it is
    I don't trust it

1285 votes
VoteView Results
Popular Posts

    The McGhee Sextuplets: A Family Built On LoveThe McGhee Sextuplets: A Family Built On Love
    Reality Star Hospitalized After Major Car Accident: “Unresponsive, But Stable”Reality Star Hospitalized After Major Car Accident: "Unresponsive, But Stable"
    Marjorie Harvey: Fit, Fine & 57!Marjorie Harvey: Fit, Fine & 57!
    9 Common Nail Problems That Could Be Psoriatic Arthritis9 Common Nail Problems That Could Be Psoriatic Arthritis
    Halle Berry: Over 50 ‘Just Keeps Getting Better With Time’Halle Berry: Over 50 'Just Keeps Getting Better With Time'


Podcast
Footer
Where Wellness & Culture Connect

BDO is the world’s largest and most comprehensive online health resource specifically targeted to African Americans. BDO understands that the uniqueness of Black culture - our heritage and our traditions - plays a role in our health. BDO gives you access to innovative new approaches to the health information you need in everyday language so you can break through the disparities, gain control and live your life to its fullest.
Connect With Us

Learn More About

    Hepatitis C
    Diabetes
    Sickle Cell
    Mental Health

    About Us
    Privacy Policy
    Advertise With Us
    BlackDoctor.org Advertising and Sponsorship Policy
    Daily Vitamina
    TBH

Copyright © 2022, BlackDoctor, Inc. All rights reserved.





Call Now: 866-638-4776

    Care and Treatment
    Lung Disorders
    Patient Resources
    Our Company
    Blog
    Contact



Call Now: 866-638-4776

    Care and Treatment
    Lung Disorders
    Patient Resources
    Our Company
    Blog
    Contact

Fruits and Vegetables that Fight Lung Disease

Aug 13, 2021 | hide, Uncategorized

Diet can affect how we absorb oxygen. According to the American Lung Association, COPD sufferers burn 10 times as many calories from breathing, compared to people with healthy lungs. This hyper-metabolic state, that is, a state of increased metabolic rate, can lead to anorexia and malnutrition. The heart and lungs of overweight people have to work harder than they should, but being underweight can result in low energy and feeling sickly. Balance is the key, so let’s discuss Fruits and Vegetables that Fight Lung Disease.
Plant-Based Iron Sources

Fruits and Vegetables that Fight Lung Disease

You can boost blood iron levels – and therefore oxygen – through other iron-rich foods. An ounce of cashew nuts or a medium baked potato each offers 1.9 milligrams of iron, while 1/2 cup of kidney beans boosts your iron intake by 2 milligrams. Lentils boast an impressive amount of iron – 3.3 milligrams per 1/2 cup – and a quarter block of tofu (made from protein-rich soybeans) has 2.2 milligrams.

These foods contain a different form of iron, called non-heme iron, that isn’t absorbed as easily as the iron from meat. To boost iron absorption, pair them with foods that have vitamin C, like citrus fruits and vegetables such as bell peppers. For example, eat lentils or beans on top of a spinach salad, add cashew butter to a fruit smoothie or use tofu in a vegetable stir-fry to increase iron absorption.
Hemoglobin Boosting Foods

Fruits and Vegetables that Fight Lung Disease

Eat beans to raise hemoglobin levels. Good sources include garbanzo beans, dried peas, red kidney beans, lentils, soybeans, black beans, white beans and cowpeas. The American Dietetic Association encourages eating these foods in tandem with vitamin C-rich foods to maximize iron absorption. The Office of Dietary Supplements lists citrus fruits and juices, kiwi fruit, broccoli, baked potatoes and tomatoes as rich sources of vitamin C. Snack on dried prunes, apricots, raisins, Brazil nuts and almonds.
Antioxidant Properties of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables

Fruits and Vegetables that Fight Lung Disease

The antioxidant properties of certain fruits and vegetables allow the body to use oxygen more efficiently, so it enters the bloodstream in the proper amounts. Antioxidants include vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E and coenzyme Q10. Antioxidant-rich foods include blueberries, cranberries, artichoke hearts, strawberries, plums, blackberries, and as previously mentioned, the incredibly healthy and nutritious red kidney bean.
Other Nutrients for Increasing Blood Oxygen

Fruits and Vegetables that Fight Lung Disease

Other nutrients can influence red blood cell and iron levels in the blood – and, by extension, the amount of oxygen. For example, protein provides amino acids the body needs to manufacture cellular proteins, including oxygen-transporting hemoglobin. Meat, fish, shellfish, eggs and dairy offer oxygen-boosting protein, as do nuts, seeds, beans and other legumes such as peanuts. Protein-rich foods include fish, beans, peas, nuts and seeds. Protein is essential to protecting and maintaining the body.

Vitamin A promotes the body’s production of oxygen-carrying red blood cells. The body constantly needs new red blood cells to replace old, damaged ones, and it needs vitamin A to do it. Getting more vitamin A can boost blood hemoglobin levels, so blood cells can carry more oxygen. To get more vitamin A, consume red and orange produce such as sweet potatoes, cantaloupe, mangoes, pumpkin and butternut squash as well as leafy greens like collards and kale.
Consult Your Doctor

Consult Your Doctor

Some medicines for lung disease have side effects and may react with nutrients. There is so much advice available on diet that many people don’t know where to begin. We recommend speaking with a pulmonologist, who may recommend visiting a registered dietician who is experienced with the dietary needs of patients with lung disease.

People diagnosed with degenerative lung disease have to be especially aware of their lifestyle choices, including what they eat. Try to get plenty of fruits and vegetables along with high-protein foods such as, fish, eggs, meat and soy. Drinking plenty of water can help thin mucus and phlegm, making it easier to expel by coughing. Liquid supplements may help those who can’t seem to consume sufficient calories. As always, consult your doctor about which foods are best for you.

Currently, there is no cure for degenerative lung diseases, but they can be effectively treated. Early diagnosis and timely treatment are crucial to helping control symptoms of lung disease. There are different treatments available, including cellular therapy. If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with a chronic lung disease, contact us at the Lung Health Institute or call 888-745-6697 to speak with a patient coordinator.
Recent Posts

    Interstitial Lung Disease: Stages, Prognosis and Treatment
    CT Masks for COPD
    Best Positions to Reduce Shortness of Breath
    COPD & Over-the-Counter Pain Meds
    Oxygen Levels and the Digestive System

We care about your overall lung health and want to learn more about you. Tell us about yourself and how you are feeling.
Diagnosed with a chronic lung disorder?*
Do you have active cancer (excl. skin cancer)?*
Severity of Lung Disorder*
Name*
First Name*
Last
Email**
Phone**
Address**
City
State
ZIP Code
Preferred Day of Contact
Preferred Time of Contact
Consent*
I accept the Centers for Respiratory Health T&C*
* Indicates a required field
Care and Treatment

Cellular Therapy

Our Providers

Patient Resources

FAQ
Lung Disorders

Bronchiectasis

COPD

Emphysema

Interstitial Lung Disease

Pneumoconiosis

Pulmonary Fibrosis
Our Company

About Us

Peer-Reviewed Publications

Advisory Board

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy
Contact Us

866-638-4776

info@centersforrespiratoryhealth.com

Scottsdale Adress:
8377 E Hartford Dr STE 120,
Scottsdale, AZ 85255

Each patient is different, and results may vary.
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
This information is not intended to suggest diagnosis, treatment, cure or prevention of any disease.
Our company operates in compliance with CFR Title 21 Part 1271.15 (b) Regulation.

© Copyright 2021 Centers for Respiratory Health | All Rights Reserved

Privacy Policy       Terms of Use



LOGIN

    Forgot Password? | Sign Up
    ENTERTAINMENT
        LATEST
        WATCH
        READ
        LISTEN
        YELLOWSTONE
        MAGAZINE
        GAME ON!
    POP CULTURE
        LATEST
        CELEBS
        ROYALS
    FOOD & DRINK
        LATEST
        RECIPES
        CHICKEN RECIPES
        THE BREAKFAST CLUB
        ON A BUDGET
        EASY MEALS
        HOLIDAYS MADE SIMPLE
        HEALTHY RECIPES
        DIN FOR THE WIN
        DESSERT
        BAKING ADVENTURE
        COOKING THE EPISODE
        WEIGHT WATCHERS RECIPES
        POP KITCHEN
        KEEP IT SIMPLE WITH JON ASHTON
        WHAT AMERICA EATS
    WELLNESS
        LATEST
        ARTHRITIS STARTER KIT
        ASTHMA STARTER KIT
        BLADDER HEALTH STARTER KIT
        COLD AND FLU STARTER KIT
        COVID-19 STARTER KIT
        DIABETES STARTER KIT
        HEART HEALTH STARTER KIT
        INFERTILITY STARTER KIT
        INSOMNIA STARTER KIT
        MENOPAUSE STARTER KIT
        SCHIZOPHRENIA STARTER KIT
        SUPER SURVIVORS STARTER KIT
        TELEHEALTH STARTER KIT
        HEALTHY NOW
        MENTAL HEALTH
        SELF-CARE
        CAREGIVING
        THE TMI SHOW
        NUMBRIX
        TYPES OF DIETS
        KETO APPROVED FOODS
    LIFE
        LATEST
        SHOPPING, DEALS & FREEBIES
        EASTER
        TAX DAY SURVIVAL GUIDE
        THE NEXT YEARS
        PARENT VS. PANDEMIC
        THE MOM THREAD
        PET PARENT CENTRAL
        DELUXE VS. DUPE
        ACCOUNTS SLAYABLE
        SUSTAINABILITY
        TRAVEL
        BEST FREE WORKOUT APPS

Subscribe to our Newsletter

Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy

© 2020 AMG/Parade. All rights reserved.

Your use of this website constitutes and manifests your acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy, Cookie Notification, and awareness of the California Privacy Rights. Pursuant to U.S. Copyright law, as well as other applicable federal and state laws, the content on this website may not be reproduced, distributed, displayed, transmitted, cached, or otherwise used, without the prior, express, and written permission of Athlon Media Group. Ad Choices

    ENTERTAINMENT
    FOOD & DRINK
    HEALTHY NOW
    OUTLANDER
    BOOKS
    INSOMNIA STARTER KIT

    Search Icon

Healthy Now
Get Ready to Fill up That Grocery Cart, Because We Found 20 Doctor-Approved Foods That Fight Infection 
May 20, 2021 – 7:00 AM  – 2 Comments
Kaitlin Vogel
By Kaitlin Vogel  @@KaitlinVogel

With COVID posing such a threat over the past year, a strong immune system has been top of mind. Even though more people are getting vaccinated (yay!), being able to fight infection can always come in handy, especially because the common cold and the flu will always be a thing.

While there are many factors that affect your immunity—sleep, exercise and stress management, the list goes on—one of the best ways to boost your immunity is by eating foods that fight infection.

Ready to supercharge your immune system? Here are 20 foods recommended by experts.
Foods that fight infection
Spices, especially clove, oregano, thyme, basil, cinnamon, and cumin

Many spices have powerful anti-microbial action, inhibiting the growth and spread of bacteria and fungi, says Dr. Stacie Stephenson, Certified Nutrition Specialist and CEO of VibrantDoc. This is why they are often used to preserve foods, but including them liberally in your own cooking can help them fight microbes, not just in your food but in you.

Related: How to Save Money on Spices
 Chili peppers

Chili peppers contain the compound capsaicin, Dr. Uma Naidoo, MD, a nutritional psychiatrist, professional chef, nutrition specialist, and author of the bestselling book This is Your Brain on Food, explains. In addition to many other helpful health benefits, they are rich antioxidants fending off free radicals in the body, but also fending off bacterial infections and may cause mucus to be thinner and be more easily removed from the lungs in certain respiratory infections.
Broccoli sprouts

Broccoli sprouts contain bioactives called sulforaphanes that improve immune function, says Dr. William W. Li, MD, an internationally renowned physician, scientist and author of the New York Times bestseller Eat to Beat Disease: The New Science of How Your Body Can Heal Itself. Studies have shown broccoli sprouts can even help boost your body’s beneficial response to the flu vaccine. You can put sprouts in a salad or even in a smoothie.
Seaweed

Seaweeds and other types of algae, like nori, arame, dulse, kelp, and spirulina, contain phenolic compounds, proteins, peptides, fatty acids, polysaccharides, and sterols, all of which have demonstrated antimicrobial properties which could help to take out infectious pathogens, Dr. Stephenson explains.
Garlic

For centuries, garlic has been used to combat infectious diseases. Although it is not referenced, it is believed that Louis Pasteur described the antibacterial effect of garlic in 1858 for the first time, says Dr. Naidoo. Research has shown that garlic is effective against many gram-positive, gram-negative, and acid-fast bacteria. (e.g. salmonella, e. coli, Staph aureus to name a few.

It has been documented that garlic inhibits bad microbes in the gut when compared to good microbes. But garlic is also a prebiotic food source and helps along those gut microbes by feeding them the fiber they need, so one could say it has dual positive effects for infections!
 Mushrooms

Mushrooms contain a natural bioactive substance called beta-D-glucan that activates healthy gut bacteria to enhance immunity, Dr. Li states. The good stuff is in the stem of the mushroom as well as the cap, so eat the stems, too!
Citrus fruit

The vitamin C in citrus fruits, like oranges, grapefruits, lemons, and limes, is not just a powerful antioxidant but supports both the innate (you were born with it) and adaptive (your body developed it) immune systems in multiple ways, such as promoting wound healing; creating stronger skin, artery, and intestinal lining barriers against pathogens; reducing oxidative stress that could worsen infections; killing microbes directly; and cleaning up the by-products of the infection-fighting process, says Dr. Stephenson.

We know people with vitamin C deficiency are more likely to develop infections, and we also know that vitamin C can reduce infection severity. Other great sources of vitamin C besides citrus fruits include red peppers, strawberries, kiwifruit, papayas, tomatoes, broccoli, and kale.
Ginger

While ginger is often recommended to help nausea it is high in both antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties, Dr. Naidoo explains. A research review of 60 studies found that ginger may also be beneficial to other medical conditions including the immune-system as ginger contains compounds like beta-carotene and capsaicin.
 Pomegranate

The juice contains ellagitannins that help your gut grow a healthy bacteria called Akkermansia mucinophila, says Dr. Li. This bacterium helps steer your immune system to fight against infections.  A small cup of pomegranate juice can help support Akkermansia in your gut.
Pumpkin seeds

Pumpkin seeds are a great source of magnesium, which helps to fight infections by synthesizing antibodies, reducing infection-worsening inflammation, and clearing infectious microbes out of the body by binding them to lymphocytes for removal, Dr. Stephenson explains.
Apples

In a study where people ate an apple a day, results showed that participants used fewer prescription medications, Dr. Naidoo states. Apples contain a powerful flavonoid called khellin which may open up airways when you have an infection. They are also high in fiber, which can help reduce inflammation in the body.
Blueberries

Blueberries contain anthocyanins, which are natural bioactives that have been shown to increase immune activity in the body, while lowering inflammation, Dr. Li explains. Blueberries are available year-round in fresh or frozen form, making them super convenient.
 Leafy greens

The beta carotene in leafy greens changes into vitamin A during the process of digestion and assimilation, and vitamin A has anti-inflammatory superpowers, says Dr. Stephenson. It also acts as an immune-system enhancer by regulating cellular immune responses, increasing the barrier function of the respiratory and digestive tracts, optimizing the immune function of bone marrow cells, increasing antibody production, and inhibiting the development of inflammatory cells.

It’s no wonder vitamin A has been studied as a therapy for infectious diseases, including tuberculosis, malaria, and pneumonia. Be sure to eat your greens with a drizzle of olive oil to maximize bioavailability of the beta carotene.
 Flax and hemp seeds

These contain omega 3 fatty acids, which are anti-inflammatory and proven to decrease the risk for heart disease, breast and colon cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s and dementia, Sophia (Dia) Finder, Clinical Coordinator of the Applied Nutrition and Dietetics program at Logan University, explains. Increasing Omega 3 intake can also reduce the risk for other diseases like depression, ADHD, and childhood allergies.
Green tea

EGCG, an anti-inflammatory polyphenol in green tea, has been shown to significantly increase the number of T cells in the spleen and lymph nodes, which act to increase the immune response to infections, Dr. Stephenson states.

Related: 50 Health Benefits of Drinking Green Tea
Calendula petals (marigolds)

Not just a beautiful flower for your garden, calendula petals provide anti-inflammatory benefits and can be sprinkled on salads or soups to add beautiful color to any dish, says Finder.
Wild-caught salmon

There is a clear link between sub-optimal vitamin D levels and increased infection rates as well as higher death rates from microbial infections, Dr. Stephenson explains. And wild-caught salmon is one of the few foods that contain a significant dose of vitamin D: 124% or even more of your daily value for a 3.5-ounce portion. (Note that farmed salmon contains significantly less vitamin D than wild-caught salmon.)

Vitamin D supports the production of proteins that are toxic to pathogens. Infection fighters like monocytes, macrophages, and thymus tissues all have receptors for vitamin D and are important modulators of the immune response. You can get vitamin D from spending 20 to 30 minutes in the sun on most days, but having salmon 2 or 3 times per week is a good way to further boost your levels, especially if you don’t get regular sun exposure.
Dandelion blossoms

Dandelions contain probiotics associated with good gut health, Finder states. They have a zesty flavor, making them the perfect addition to pesto or soup.
Manuka honey

Manuka honey is made from Leptospermum scoparium, also known as the tea tree, found in New Zealand and Australia, says Agatha Repice, owner of Clean Clear Body. It has antibacterial, antiviral anti-inflammatory properties.

The enzyme in the honey is called glucoseoxidase, which catalyzes the oxidation of glucose to hydrogen peroxide. The honey can be used to treat burns, wounds, ulcers and infections.
Healthy Now Newsletter
Get good vibes and health tips delivered right to your inbox!
Nasturtium

Nasturtium is full of antioxidants and has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, Finder explains. Its spicy, peppery flavor makes it a great addition to vegetables like squash or infusing in vinegar. 

Next, read 17 simple habits that can boost your immunity.
Sources

    International Journal of Molecular Sciences: “Antibacterial and Antifungal Activities of Spices”
    Stacie Stephenson, Certified Nutrition Specialist and CEO of VibrantDoc
    Uma Naidoo, a nutritional psychiatrist, professional chef, nutrition specialist, and author of the bestselling book This is Your Brain on Food
    William W. Li, MD, an internationally renowned physician, scientist and author of the New York Times bestseller Eat to Beat Disease: The New Science of How Your Body Can Heal Itself
    Marine Drugs: “Antimicrobials from Seaweeds for Food Applications”
    World Journal of Microbiology & Biotechnology: “A Quantitative Assessment of the Antimicrobial Activity of Garlic (Allium Sativum)”
    Nutrients: “Vitamin C and Immune Function”
    International Wound Journal: “Vitamin C Promotes Wound Healing Through Novel Pleiotropic Mechanisms”
    Free Radical Biology and Medicine: “Sodium Dependent Vitamin C Transporter Isoforms in Skin: Distribution, Kinetics, and Effect of UVB-Induced Oxidative Stress”
    My Food Data: “Top 10 Foods Highest in Vitamin C”
    International Journal of Preventative Medicine: “Anti-Oxidative and Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Ginger in Health and Physical Activity”
    European Journal of Clinical Nutrition: “Possible Roles of Magnesium on the Immune System”
    National Library of Medicine: “Magnesium and Immune Function: An Overview”
    JAMA: Association Between Apple Consumption and Physician Visits”
    Proceedings of the Nutrition Society: “Vitamin A as an Anti-Inflammatory Agent”
    Journal of Clinical Medicine: “Role of Vitamin A in the Immune System”
    Sophia (Dia) Finder, Clinical Coordinator of the Applied Nutrition and Dietetics program at Logan University
    Immunology Letters: “Mechanism Discovered for Health Benefit of Green Tea, New Approach to Autoimmune Disease”
    Vitamins and Minerals: “Vitamins: Key Role Players in Boosting Up Immune Response – A Mini Review”
    The Journal of Steroid Biochemistry and Molecular Biology: “An Evaluation of the Vitamin D3 Content in Fish: Is the Vitamin D Content Adequate to Satisfy the Dietary Requirement for Vitamin D”
    Agatha Repice, owner of Clean Clear Body
    Nature: “Dietary Trehalose Enhances Virulence of Epidemic Clostridium Difficile”

 

There's a discussion among 3 members.
Press "Read Comments" to view.
Leave A Comment

Healthy Now Newsletter
Get good vibes and health tips delivered right to your inbox!
American Idol 2022! Everything You Need to Know, Including the Top 10
Paulette Cohn, Editor
100+ Weight Watchers Recipes with WW Points to Help You Lose Weight
Parade, Editor
100 Types of Diets That Could Help You Lose Weight — We've Got Tons of Info to Help You Decide
Nancy Henderson, Contributor
200 Best Crock Pot Recipes and Easy Slow Cooker Dinner Ideas for the Family
Parade, Editor
Numbrix 9 - May 1
Marilyn vos Savant, Contributor
'Sing With the Angels!' Remembering Country Music Superstar Naomi Judd
Jeryl Brunner, Contributor
8 Classic Italian Cocktails to Sip While Watching the Season 2 Premiere of Stanley Tucci: Searching for Italy
Theresa Greco, Contributor
Calling All Couch Potatoes! 15 Cheap Sectional Sofas That You Can Snag for Under $500
Stephanie Osmanski, Contributor
Get Your Kicks on Route 66! 10 Don't-Miss Stops on Route 66
M.B. Roberts, Contributor
75 Eid Mubarak Wishes and Greetings to Celebrate
Jessica Sager, Contributor
most commented
Most Popular
1
75 Eid Mubarak Wishes and Greetings to Celebrate
Jessica Sager, Contributor
2
We Ranked the 101 Best Thrillers of All Time, From Psycho to Parasite
Samuel R. Murrian, Contributor
3
The Real Reason Kenedi Anderson Quit American Idol
Paulette Cohn, Editor
4
100 Inspirational Quotes to Keep You Inspired in 2022 — You Can Do Hard Things!
Jessica Sager, Contributor
top voices
Jessica Sager
Jessica Sager Contributor

    75 Eid Mubarak Wishes and Greetings to Celebrate

K.L. Connie Wang
K.L. Connie Wang Contributor

    The Threat of the Coal Mine Reopening Becomes All Too Real on the Next When Calls the Heart

Mike Bloom
Mike Bloom Contributor

    American Idol Winner Laine Hardy Arrested for Planting Listening Device

Paulette Cohn
Paulette Cohn Editor

    Matthew Goode Reveals the Moment He Knew He Nailed Robert Evans in The Offer's Tale of the Making of The Godfather

Let's make it official Celeb interviews, recipes, wellness tips and horoscopes delivered to your inbox daily.
PARADE

Entertainment

    Read
    Watch
    Listen
    Magazine
    Best Movies of All Time
    Best Mystery Books
    New Kids' Movies
    Amazing Race
    American Idol
    Masked Singer
    NCIS
    Outlander
    Survivor
    This Is Us
    Top Chef

Food & Drink

    Avocado Recipes
    Casserole Recipes
    Chicken Recipes
    Crock Pot Recipes
    Desserts
    Easy Meals
    Ground Beef Recipes
    Healthy Recipes
    Pasta Recipes
    Pork Recipes
    Recipes
    Soup Recipes
    WW Recipes
    Videos
    Pop Kitchen
    What America Eats

Wellness

    About Parade Health
    Healthy Now
    Mental Health
    Self-Care
    Cold and Flu Starter Kit
    COVID-19 Starter Kit
    Heart Health Starter Kit
    Insomnia Starter Kit
    Super Survivors Starter Kit
    Types of Diets
    Best Free Workout Apps
    Keto Approved Foods
    Low-Carb Foods
    Numbrix
    Workouts to Lose Weight
    Walking to Lose Weight

Life

    Family
    Dad Jokes
    Life Quotes
    Happy Mother's Day
    Mother's Day Gifts
    Mother's Day Quotes
    Online Games
    Texting Games
    Popular Baby Names
    Unique Baby Names
    Shopping, Deals & Freebies
    Travel
    Trivia

Pop Culture

    Best '80s Movies
    Best '90s Movies
    Celebs
    Celeb Net Worth
    Royals
    Royal Baby Names

© 2022 AMG/Parade. All rights reserved.

Your use of this website constitutes and manifests your acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy, Cookie Notification, and awareness of the California Privacy Rights. Pursuant to U.S. Copyright law, as well as other applicable federal and state laws, the content on this website may not be reproduced, distributed, displayed, transmitted, cached, or otherwise used, without the prior, express, and written permission of Athlon Media Group. Ad Choices

    About Parade
    Contact Us
    Media Kit
    Media Relations
    Our Contributors

Parade Media


    NDTVहिन्दीBUSINESSMOVIESCRICKETTECHFOODCRYPTOnewWEB STORIESEDUCATIONAUTOSWASTHLIFESTYLEHEALTHSHOPPINGART

NDTV Food
Eng

    Select Languages
    हिंदी | Hindi

    eid 2022
        Time And Significance
        Eid Special Recipes
        Biryani Recipes
        Mutton Curry
        Expert Tips
    Features
        Food News
        cooking Tips
        Opinions
        World Cuisine
        Food & Drinks
        Festivals
        Restaurant Review
        Facts
        Best Recipes
        Funny Side Up
    Recipes
        Healthy Recipes
        Snacks Recipes
        Vegetarian Recipes
        Chicken Recipes
        Meat Recipes
        Seafood Recipes
        Rice Recipes
        Bread Recipes
        Desserts
        Dinner Recipes
        Festivals
        Kids Recipes
        Winter Recipes
        Breakfast Recipes
        हिन्दी रेसिपीज़
    Web Stories
    Recipe Videos
    Health
        Diabetes
        Healthy Living
        Yoga Benefits
        Weight Loss
        Fitness Tips
        Quick Tips
        Cholesterol Control
        Heart Health
        Ayurvedic Tips
        Men's Health
        Women's Health
    Home Remedies 

Search Recipes
7 Foods That Fight Bacteria and Kill Germs Naturally
Settings

    Change Font Size
    A
    A
    A
    Change Language
    हिंदी | Hindi
    Focus on Story

Features

    Food News
    cooking Tips
    Opinions
    World Cuisine
    Food & Drinks
    Festivals
    Restaurant Review
    Facts
    Best Recipes

Food & Drinks 7 Foods That Fight Bacteria and Kill Germs Naturally
7 Foods That Fight Bacteria and Kill Germs Naturally

    NDTV Food Desk
    Updated: March 21, 2018 17:06 IST

7 Foods That Fight Bacteria and Kill Germs Naturally
Highlights

    Honey is one of the first natural anti-microbial medicines to be used
    Garlic is a powerful anti-bacterial that can fight yeast infections
    Pineapple can reduce inflammation of the nose and the sinuses

Photo Credit: IstockOur body works really hard to constantly fight bacteria, germs and viruses that we may ingest through the air we breathe or the food we eat. Whether it’s a common flu attack, a dreadful skin infection or an upset stomach, bad bacteria may compromise your health and therefore, your internal defense mechanism needs to be always active to get rid of them. Our immune system is quite powerful but it needs little help which can be provided in the form of these anti-bacterial and anti-microbial foods that fight off the harmful bacteria naturally.1. HoneyHoney is one of the first natural anti-microbial medicines to be used. It contains live enzymes that release hydrogen peroxide, which is known to kill germs and unwanted foreign elements that enter our body. Start your day with a teaspoon of honey and warm water.(Also read: Why Raw Honey and Not Just Regular Honey?)
 
honey tea
Start your day with honey and warm water. Photo Credit: Istock2. GarlicGarlic is a powerful anti-bacterial that can fight yeast infections, fungus and candida overgrowth. It may taste repulsive but a traditional remedy to maintain health and protect yourself from diseases is to have raw garlic on an empty stomach. Garlic contains a natural protective compound called allicin and other volatile oils, which are released on chewing and crushing it.
 
garlic
Chewing raw garlic is considered to be good for your health. Photo Credit: Istock 3. TurmericThis super spice from granny’s treasure trove has become the talk of the town owing to its medicinal properties. Turmeric has always been known as a great antiseptic used to heal wounds and cuts, but it is also a wonderful anti-bacterial that keeps your internal systems clean. Drinking a glass of turmeric milk (haldi doodh) every day is one of the best ways to bolster your immunity.(Also read: 5 Amazing Benefits of Drinking Turmeric Milk)
 
turmeric
Drinking a glass of turmeric milk daily is the best way to build your immunity.4. Coconut OilThe anti-bacterial properties of coconut oil come from the presence of medium chain fatty acids or triglycerides (MCTs) found in it. The two most potent medium chain triglycerides found in coconut oil are lauric acid and caprylic acid. Research has shown that it can inactivate several types of bacteria, fungi, yeast and viruses. It is a great remedy to fight skin infections.
 
coconut oil pure home made
Coconut oil is a great remedy for fighting skin infections. Photo Credit: Istock5. LemonThe anti-bacterial and ant-fungal properties of lemon enable it to fight bacteria that cause acne. It is full of Vitamin C, which also acts as an antioxidant that fights disease-causing free radicals in the body. You must drink a glass of nimbu paani made with the juice of two lemons to get your daily dose of Vitamin C.
 
lemon water 650x400
Lime water is a great way to get your daily dose of Vitamin C. Photo Credit: Istock.6. PineappleYou may have not known about the health benefits of this sweet and juicy tropical fruit, but it acts as an amazing anti-bacterial that specially helps to fight invading cells in the mouth and throat. Fresh pineapple juice is known to cool the blood and reduce inflammation of the nose and the sinuses.
 
pineapple huice
Fresh pineapple juice is known to cool the blood. Photo Credit: Istock7. GingerGinger is an effective home remedy for throat infections. Sucking a piece of raw ginger and taking in all its juices is known to cure cough and kill the bacteria that has caused the infection. Ginger also contains a group of chemical compounds called sesquiterpene that are known to kill rhinoviruses, agents that cause cold.
 
ginger
Ginger is known to kill rhinoviruses, agents that cause cold.Turn to nature’s bounty to protect and make yourself stronger from within.
Comments 5
For the latest food news, health tips and recipes, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and YouTube.
Tags:

    Immunity
    Bacteria

Related Articles

    Watch: 6 Immunity Boosting Foods That You'll Easily Find At Home
    Three Easy Rasam Recipes To Boost Your Immunity
    Eat These 3 Winter Foods To Boost Your Immunity This Season
    Bipasha Basu Swears By This Turmeric-Based Immunity Booster Powder (Recipe Inside)

Trending News

    Kangana Ranaut Compared Indian Sweet Dishes With Their Foreign Counterparts
    Kangana Ranaut Compared Indian Sweet Dishes With Their Foreign Counterparts

Listen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com

Our Best Recipes

    10 Best Chana Dal Recipes Recipe
    10 Best Chana Dal Recipes
    13 Best Toast Recipes: Exciting Toppings to Spruce Up Your Slice of Bread | Easy Toast Recipes Recipe
    13 Best Toast Recipes: Exciting Toppings To Spruce Up Your Slice Of Bread | Easy Toast Recipes
    5 Best Lassi Recipes: The Ultimate Summer Cooler from Punjab Recipe
    5 Best Lassi Recipes: The Ultimate Summer Cooler From Punjab
    11 Amazing Summer Beverages You Must Drink To Beat The Heat! Recipe
    11 Amazing Summer Beverages You Must Drink To Beat The Heat!
    7 Best Margarita Recipes Recipe
    7 Best Margarita Recipes

Trending Links
Social Share
Health

    Weight Loss
    Diabetes Diet
    Keto Diet
    Depression
    Low Blood Pressure
    Healthy Food
    Digestion
    Headaches

Beauty

    Aloe Vera
    Rose Water
    Hair Growth
    Dry Skin
    Dandruff
    Face Packs
    Beauty Tips
    Acne

Veg Recipes

    Dinner Recipes
    Salad Recipes
    Paneer Recipes
    Mushroom Recipes
    Soya Recipes
    Dal Recipes
    Cabbage Recipes
    Beetroot Recipes
    Snacks Recipes

Summer Special

    Summer Recipes
    Summer Foods
    Summer Drinks
    Benefits of Curd
    Skin Care Tips
    Face Care Tips
    Smoothie Recipe
    Phirni Recipe

Indian Recipes
Chicken Recipes
Chicken Curry
Mutton Recipes
Biryani Recipes
Butter Chicken
Dinner Recipes
Breakfast Recipes
Pav Bhaji
This website follows the DNPA Code of Ethics © 2022. NDTV Convergence, All Rights Reserved.

    Privacy Policy
    About Us
    Feedback
    Author
    Contact Us

Language

    Select Languages
    हिंदी | Hindi

Search

    Eid 2022
        Time And Significance
        Eid Special Recipes
        Biryani Recipes
        Mutton Curry
        Expert Tips
    Features
        Recipes
        Drinks Recipes
        Features
        Web Stories
        Recipe Videos
        Health
        Home Remedies
        Our Team
        Nutritionists Speak
    More from NDTV
        NDTV
        हिन्दी
        BUSINESS
        MOVIES
        CRICKET
        TECH
        FOOD
        CRYPTO
        WEB STORIES
        EDUCATION
        AUTO
        SWASTH
        LIFESTYLE
        HEALTH
        SHOPPING
        ART




Harvard Health Publishing Harvard Health Publishing Logo
Shopping Cart
Customer Service
Content Licensing
About Us
Login
Free HealthBeat Signup
Pay Subscription Bill
Common Conditions
Staying Healthy
Resources
Blog
COVID-19 Updates
Recent Blog Articles

Staying Healthy
Foods that fight inflammation
November 16, 2021
Doctors are learning that one of the best ways to reduce inflammation lies not in the medicine cabinet, but in the refrigerator.  By following an anti-inflammatory diet you can fight off inflammation for good.

What does an anti-inflammatory diet do? Your immune system becomes activated when your body recognizes anything that is foreign—such as an invading microbe, plant pollen, or chemical. This often triggers a process called inflammation. Intermittent bouts of inflammation directed at truly threatening invaders protect your health.

However, sometimes inflammation persists, day in and day out, even when you are not threatened by a foreign invader. That's when inflammation can become your enemy. Many major diseases that plague us—including cancer, heart disease, diabetes, arthritis, depression, and Alzheimer's—have been linked to chronic inflammation.

One of the most powerful tools to combat inflammation comes not from the pharmacy, but from the grocery store. "Many experimental studies have shown that components of foods or beverages may have anti-inflammatory effects," says Dr. Frank Hu, professor of nutrition and epidemiology in the Department of Nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health.
Protect yourself from the damage of chronic inflammation.

Science has proven that chronic, low-grade inflammation can turn into a silent killer that contributes to cardiovas­cular disease, cancer, type 2 diabetes and other conditions. Get simple tips to fight inflammation and stay healthy -- from Harvard Medical School experts.
Learn More
View Protect yourself from the damage of chronic inflammation.

Choose the right anti-inflammatory foods, and you may be able to reduce your risk of illness. Consistently pick the wrong ones, and you could accelerate the inflammatory disease process.
  
Foods that cause inflammation

Try to avoid or limit these foods as much as possible:

    refined carbohydrates, such as white bread and pastries

    French fries and other fried foods

    soda and other sugar-sweetened beverages

    red meat (burgers, steaks) and processed meat (hot dogs, sausage)

    margarine, shortening, and lard

The health risks of inflammatory foods

Not surprisingly, the same foods on an inflammation diet are generally considered bad for our health, including sodas and refined carbohydrates, as well as red meat and processed meats.

"Some of the foods that have been associated with an increased risk for chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease are also associated with excess inflammation," Dr. Hu says. "It's not surprising, since inflammation is an important underlying mechanism for the development of these diseases."

Unhealthy foods also contribute to weight gain, which is itself a risk factor for inflammation. Yet in several studies, even after researchers took obesity into account, the link between foods and inflammation remained, which suggests weight gain isn't the sole driver. "Some of the food components or ingredients may have independent effects on inflammation over and above increased caloric intake," Dr. Hu says.
Anti-inflammatory foods

An anti-inflammatory diet should include these foods:

    tomatoes

    olive oil

    green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, kale, and collards

    nuts like almonds and walnuts

    fatty fish like salmon, mackerel, tuna, and sardines

    fruits such as strawberries, blueberries, cherries, and oranges

Benefits of anti-inflammatory foods

On the flip side are beverages and foods that reduce inflammation, and with it, chronic disease, says Dr. Hu. He notes in particular fruits and vegetables such as blueberries, apples, and leafy greens that are high in natural antioxidants and polyphenols—protective compounds found in plants.

Studies have also associated nuts with reduced markers of inflammation and a lower risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Coffee, which contains polyphenols and other anti-inflammatory compounds, may protect against inflammation, as well.
Anti-inflammatory diet

To reduce levels of inflammation, aim for an overall healthy diet. If you're looking for an eating plan that closely follows the tenets of anti-inflammatory eating, consider the Mediterranean diet, which is high in fruits, vegetables, nuts, whole grains, fish, and healthy oils.

In addition to lowering inflammation, a more natural, less processed diet can have noticeable effects on your physical and emotional health. "A healthy diet is beneficial not only for reducing the risk of chronic diseases, but also for improving mood and overall quality of life," Dr. Hu says.

Share This Page
Share this page to Facebook
Share this page to Twitter
Share this page via Email
Print This Page
Disclaimer:

As a service to our readers, Harvard Health Publishing provides access to our library of archived content. Please note the date of last review or update on all articles.

No content on this site, regardless of date, should ever be used as a substitute for direct medical advice from your doctor or other qualified clinician.
Adding more olive oil to your diet may help prevent an early death featured image

Staying Healthy
Adding more olive oil to your diet may help prevent an early death
Take melatonin supplements for sleep? Check your dosage featured image

Staying Healthy
Take melatonin supplements for sleep? Check your dosage
Does the placebo effect really work? featured image

Staying Healthy
Does the placebo effect really work?

You might also be interested in…
Foods that Fight Inflammation

In this Harvard Medical School Guide you’ll be introduced to foods—more than 120 in all—that will help you turn out meals that fight inflammation and disease.  You’ll learn how plant-based chemicals called phytochemicals act as antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agents, helping to bring down levels of inflammation and to counteract inflammation’s harmful effects. And you’ll find dozens of anti-inflammatory foods with added health benefits that include lowering cholesterol, reducing the risk of Alzheimer’s disease and of stroke, improving blood pressure, adding protection against heart disease, and even reducing pain and soreness after exercise.
Read More
Free Healthbeat Signup

Get the latest in health news delivered to your inbox!
Footer
Harvard Health Publishing Harvard Medical Logo
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
My Account

    Customer Service

Log in
Order Now

    Online Learning Courses

Digital Subscriptions
Special Health Reports
Print Subscriptions
More

    About Us

Permissions
Content Licensing
Topics

© 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College

Do not sell my personal information | Privacy Policy

    HomeAboutContact Us

Positive Health Wellness

    Diet & Nutrition
    Recipes
    Beauty & Aging
    Pain Relief
    Infographics

 
Diet & Nutrition	
9 Infection Fighting Foods You Can Enjoy Every Week
by Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D. Wednesday, March 15, 2017

Did you know that your diet can help you fight infection? There are certain foods that are filled with antibacterial and antifungal properties. They leave your whole body feeling healthier, as your immune system can tackle anything the outside world throws at it.

But you need to get the right foods into your diet. Some of the best foods are those that you can enjoy on a daily or weekly basis. There’s no need to do anything special to add them into your diet. You just substitute a few everyday items quickly and efficiently.

Here are nine of the best foods for fighting infections. Make sure you add them to your diet right away. You won’t regret it.
Start with the Berries

Whether you want to add some mixed berries to the start of your day or prefer to eat one type of berry at a time, you’ll benefit. Berries are filled with antioxidants. Raspberries and blueberries are among the best, but they are all the most powerful type of fruit when it comes to fighting against infections and illnesses.

While many people believe that vitamin C is necessary for the immune system, it’s antioxidantsthat are necessary. Antioxidants help to fight against free radicals, which change the cells’ ability to repair and grow healthily. Berries have been linked to reducing the risks of cancer, dementia, and other diseases that are affected by the cell structure.

They also give the immune system a boost and are full of antibacterial properties. You’ll find that your body is able to get rid of the bacteria becomes a major issue. Cranberries are popular for urinary tract infections, as they help to support kidney function to remove the toxins from the body.

The downside is berries can be full of acid and natural sugars. You’ll want to make sure you follow a healthy oral hygiene routine to protect the potential acid or sugar build-up in the mouth.
Add Garlic to Every Meal that You Have

Okay, so you can’t add garlic to every single meal but try to add it to at least one meal a day. This is possible usually with the dinner at the end of a day.

Why is garlic so beneficial? Well, it’s been linked to fighting off bacterial and viral infections. Studies have shown that it’s useful in herbal remedies and it has been used in natural remedies for centuries. The chances are that those who prefer to stay away from medication have recommended some type of garlic drink to help get over a cold or the flu.

Garlic has also been linked to reducing high blood pressure and diabetes. Some AIDS sufferers have noted fewer severe symptoms. It’s not a replacement for medication but can help to manage side effects and symptoms.

While cooking it is beneficial, you will want to get it raw as much as possible. Eat it in between meals. Just make sure you brush your teeth before you leave the house to get rid of the garlic breath! If you’re really worried or can’t deal with chewing on a bit of garlic, add it to a salad instead.
Get a Daily Amount of Leafy Greens

Yes, leafy greens are one of the major superfoods around. You need to get them in your diet daily. This isn’t just because they’re good for getting your nutrients, but because they support every single thing your body does. Your immune system will thank you for the addition of the greens on a regular basis.

Really, it is the nutrients that help to support your bodily functions. The dark leafy greens like kale, spinach, and even book choy is filled with vitamin C, iron, beta-carotene, folate, and antioxidants. Your organs work as they should, as your body can remove the toxins naturally and easily. You’ll find that you suffer fewer symptoms of everydaycolds since your immune system can fight off the virus because they have a chance to take effect.

The great thing about leafy greens is that they are the easiest ingredients to add to your diet on a daily basis. You can throw them into salads, replace lettuce with spinach or kale in sandwiches, add them to your scrambled eggs or omelets, and even create dishes specifically around them. It really is up to you.
Use Apple Cider Vinegar on a Weekly Basis

This is one of those ingredients that you don’t need to add to your diet daily. Adding it weekly will give you a good start. It’s also something to use when you are feeling ill or have a sore throat.

Apple cider vinegar is full of antibacterial properties. It’s an acid and will burn away at the bacteria build-up in your body, giving your immune system something less to fight against on a daily basis. You’ll also find that the acid helps to reduce pain and discomfort, especially if you gargle it while suffering from a sore throat!

The downside is the acid in the mouth. You will need to make sure you follow a good oral hygiene routine to protect the teeth from decay. You can counter this by eating cheese after gargling the apple cider vinegar.

You don’t need to opt for apple cider vinegar on its own. It doesn’t have the best taste for everyone. Add some garlic to it or dilute it in some water. You’ll soon find that the germs and bacteria are long gone without even realizing that you’ve done anything special.
Use Ginger for Treating Stomach Problems

If you have a tummy upset, you want to consider adding some ginger to your diet. The antibacterial properties will get into your digestive system and fight against the reason for the pain, discomfort, or other dietary problems. It can also help to soothe discomfort from digestive tract issues, such as IBS and Crohn’s disease.

You only need a teaspoon or so of it on your food. You can also add some to hot water and drink ginger tea. This is commonly used for keeping nerves to a minimum and stopping flipping stomachs. Ginger biscuits have been known to help soothe nausea since they are light and get the infection-fighting elements of the ginger quickly.

If you’re pregnant, you will want to keep your ginger intake to a minimum. There’s no need to have it daily, and you shouldn’t have more than one portion daily. Studies have shown that ginger could be linked to miscarriage. The results aren’t entirely clear, so it’s not one of the banned foods during pregnancy.
Add Some Turmeric to Your Meals

Turmeric has been backed by science when it comes to antibacterial properties. It’s been linked to improving the immune system and fighting against bacteria build-up in the body. If you only add one ingredient to your meals on a weekly basis, make sure that it is this yellow colored spice.

The bright yellow/orange color of the turmeric is the reason for the antibacterial properties. The best thing is that you can get all the benefits no matter how you add it to your diet. Some people will add it to some water to drink it, while others will just add it to their food. You can also create a paste to cover open wounds and fight infection from setting in.

Did you also know that turmeric can be used for whitening the teeth? It can help to fight the bacteria build-up in the mouth to prevent tooth decay and tooth enamel removal. Yes, the orange spice will brighten your smile within weeks! Speaking of orange/yellow, you should also look into what are the yellow foods.

Turmeric fights against some of the most common bacteria that build up in the body. It is the most effective against bacteria that causes staph infections and common colds and illnesses. You just had to add it to your diet on a weekly basis, and you will notice the difference.

Not only do you get a healthier lifestyle, but you’ll add taste to many of your foods. Turmeric is especially great with curries and stirs fries.
Don’t Forget the Power of Chicken Soup

Chicken soup is definitely something you want to have on a weekly basis. Make it for lunch or batch make it for easier meals throughout the week. You definitely won’t regret it for numerous reasons.

Not only is soup easy to make but it’s warm. The heat helps to fight off infection since it forces your body temperature up to help the toxins leave your body through sweat. The mucus is released from your airways, which will help to reduce illnesses like pneumonia and bronchitis.

Let’s not also forget the benefits of the chicken in the soup. You’re getting more protein to help with cell and muscle growth. Cooking the chicken also releases the right amino acids to help fight against infections like bronchitis, so your soup is working double time without you doing much to help it.

On top of this, you have the benefit of the extra vegetables added to your fruit. You get far more nutrients and in liquid form. Your body doesn’t have to digest it all or break anything down, which means all the nutrients are absorbed easily.

Try to make your own chicken soup to focus on a better lifestyle and fight infections before they have a chance to set in.
Include Raw Honey in Your Diet

Raw honey was one of the first ingredients used for natural remedies. It is still used regularly for everyday treatments and herbal remedies. How often have you heard of adding honey to your tea or lemon water to help soothe a sore throat and fight off an infection? This is because of the antibacterial properties.

You will need to make sure you get raw honey. Any treated honey will lose many of its bacterial properties. You’re just getting the sugars, which aren’t always natural. This just leads to weight gain and a sugar rush instead of treatment.

Honey isn’t used as often anymore since science backs turmeric up better. However, this is going to be an ingredient that you find easier to add to your diet. Use it on your oatmeal and don’t forget about putting a drop or two in your tea instead of sugar to create a bacteria-fighting liquid on a daily basis. You just need one cup a day to see the benefits.
Replace Vegetable Oil for Coconut Oil

You’ll hear many health experts telling you to make a switch from vegetable oil to coconut oil. This is mostly for weight loss, but there are also antibacterial benefits. In fact, coconut oil is one of the most widely used herbal treatments for infections in the western world. It’s especially included in topical treatments for the skin and hair.

Coconut oil is full of antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal properties. You’re fighting off all the reasons for illness and ailments. At the same time, it includes some anti-inflammatory properties, helping to keep the symptoms at bay if they do cause a problem.

You don’t need to add coconut oil to your food every day, but it is certainly easy to do. Use it in your cooking to get fewer calories and enjoy a healthier lifestyle. You can also add it as a topical treatment to protect open wounds.

Unfortunately, there is no science to back up the claims on coconut oil yet. This isn’t a miracle food, but it certainly shows some positives in herbal remedies—otherwise, it wouldn’t still be offered.
Add New Foods to Your Diet This Week

It’s time to make a change to your lifestyle. By a few simple substitutions, you could live a healthier and happier life. There are so many foods out there that offer antibacterial and antifungal properties. They will fight off the majority of reasons why you will feel ill, discomfort, or pain.

There’s no need to add all the foods at once or include them daily. Just adding them on a weekly basis will help to improve your health.

No tags
Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D.
Certified Nutritionist, Doctor and Author at Positive Health Wellness

← Previous post
10 Total-Body Combo Moves That’ll Blast Fat and Cut Your Gym Time in Half – Infographic

Next post →
6 Habits that are Clogging Up Your Pores – Infographic

 
Positive Health Wellness

    Earnings DisclaimerPrivacy & Cookie PolicyAmazon Affiliate Disclosure

Copyrights © 2016-2017 Positive Health Wellness. All Rights Reserved.Important Disclaimer: The information contained on Positive Health Wellness is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Any statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and any information or products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult a healthcare practitioner before making changes to your diet or taking supplements that may interfere with medications.All writing and content on Positive Health Wellness is simply the opinion of the author and should not be treated as professional medical advice.Positive Health Wellness is participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program.
Back To Top
css.php

    0
    16
    10
    38

    HomeAboutContact Us

Positive Health Wellness

    Diet & Nutrition
    Recipes
    Beauty & Aging
    Pain Relief
    Infographics

 
Diet & Nutrition	
12 Vegetables With Antibacterial Properties
by Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D. Thursday, October 5, 2017

Antibiotics are overused to the point that they’re becoming ineffective. Bacteria have evolved so that they aren’t killed off easily through pharmaceutical remedies. However, there are plenty of home remedies that still work.

Foods that you likely already have in your cupboards or fridge have antibacterial properties. They will help to kill the bacteria in your body. Bacteria can’t adapt against the antibacterial properties in natural foods since the foods will continually adapt too.

The best thing about vegetables is that they will offer other benefits. They’re full of antioxidants, antiviral properties, and anti-inflammatory properties. All these working together will help to boost your immune system, so bacteria can’t-do the damage they originally could.

Here’s a look at 12 vegetables that you need to start eating more often. Some of these are herbs and spices, but in their natural forms, they are classed as vegetables!
Stock Up on Onions

Let’s start with one of the most popular vegetables in the diet. Onions are packed with antibacterial properties thanks to the sulfur compounds within the vegetable.  The vegetable is so good that it has a deep history of being used for medicinal purposes, dating right back to the Roman era.

It’s often been used to improve circulation and reduce inflammation. This helps the body’s immune system to work more effectively against viruses and bacteria, helping to overcome colds, the flu, and persistent coughs.

It’s also been used to fight against major diseases, internally and externally. It will get rid of free radicals within the body that have been known to lead to cancer. It can also fight against Staphylococci, which is a bacterial strain that’s now resistant to most antibacterial products.
Include Garlic in All Your Meals

Garlic and onions are part of the same family and offer many of the same benefits. Studies have shown that garlic is the best vegetable when it comes to fighting against the Staphylococci strain of bacteria. It also has antifungal properties, helping to fight against most yeast infections. Many yeast infections are caused by using antibiotics!

You can use garlic in your cooking or make garlic tea. The tea will be a taste that you need to get used to, but it’s worth it when you overcome some of the most common, minor ailments that there is no treatment for.

Studies have also shown that garlic will help fight against MRSA, a super-bacteria that’s common in hospitals of all places! This is all thanks to the Allicin compound that is naturally found in garlic. It will also fight against the bacteria in ear infections. You just need to create a mixture of garlic and olive oil for direct use. Make sure you talk to your doctor about this first, as placing liquids into your ears can be dangerous. Check out more info on best foods to eat while on antibiotics here
Drink More Ginger Tea

Ginger may be considered a spice, but it’s a vegetable in its raw form. You can use either raw or dried to get results, but raw is going to be far better for you. Ginger has proven to be successful against staph infections, and is better than using antibiotics on them!

You don’t just have to drink ginger tea. You can use it in your cooking and baking for antibacterial benefits.

Ginger is full of compounds known as gingerols. They’re the reason that ginger is so effective against bacterial compounds, and can also help to fight against pathogens found in the mouth. The compounds kill bacteria on a cellular level, helping to reduce the work that your immune system has to do. You’ll witness less inflammation and find that digestive complaints become a thing of the past.

Ginger has also been known to fight against upper respiratory infections. Most doctors won’t prescribe anything to get rid of these anymore since antibiotics are useless. You can also reduce acid reflux and reduce nausea, whether from illness, pregnancy, or nerves.

The best way to use ginger is in its raw form. Add a thumb of it to your green smoothies or to some hot water to create your ginger tea. If you’re going to use ground ginger, make sure it’s organic to get all the benefits.
Stock Up on Your Cabbage

Out of all the cruciferous vegetables, cabbage is the one that you want to stock up on the most. It’s known for its healing powers and has been used throughout the centuries in herbal remedies.

There are some reasons cabbage is used for antibacterial reasons. The first is the sulfur compounds. Like with onions and garlic, the sulfur will directly kill bacteria. Another reason is the vitamin C amount.

Our bodies can’t create vitamin C on its own, nor can it store it. It’s up to us to make sure we get enough. Vitamin C is an essential antioxidant that helps to boost the immune system. It’s nature’s antibiotics. A cup of cabbage will give you 75% of your recommended daily amount! You can use that cup of cabbage in multiple ways to get all the benefits.

Cabbage juice is the most effective. It’s been used for treating ulcers and other digestive problems. Create your cabbage juice and drink it between your meals for two weeks. You can also add some honey and lemon for extra vitamin C. Stomach ulcers are attributed to H. Pylori bacteria. The juice will also help to prevent bladder infections and other similar complaints.

If you have bacterial issues on the skin, apply the cabbage leaves directly. This will help to soothe inflammation and burning, while thefight against the infection directly.

Fermenting cabbage will help to bring out more of the antibacterial properties, making it even better for you! It’s time to dish up the sauerkraut.
Enjoy More Carrots

Carrots do more than help you see in the dark. They will help fight off a range of bacterial issues. It’s one of the best and cheapest vegetables to add to your diet. You can enjoy carrots raw, cooked in your meals, or even juiced. Just make sure you get carrots in your diet on a daily basis.

The antibacterial properties will help to fight against most diseases within the eye. They can help prevent problems like cataracts and macular degeneration disease. However, they also help to relieve food poisoning and digestive issues.

Unlike most other foods, cooked carrots are better for you. Carrots are full of beta-carotene, an antioxidant that offers some of the healing benefits. The beta-carotene is released in full after cooking, making them far more beneficial for your health.

Like all other orange colored vegetables and fruits, they’re also full of vitamin C. You’ll have more protection against all types of illnesses, as your immune system gets extra support. Carrot juice is a good way to gain more vitamin C, and it’s healthier than orange juice since there aren’t as many natural sugars in carrots.
Add More Broccoli to Your Diet

While cabbage is the best cruciferous vegetable, you want to add some of the others to your diet. Broccoli is the next one that you should look towards. Not only will you get the antibacterial benefits, but many other nutrients straight into your diet. Broccoli is full of calcium and iron, offering more bone and energy support.

The antibacterial benefits come from the vitamin C, which will help to enhance your immune system. The benefits aren’t just for inside your body. You’ll also find that wounds heal much easier and quicker. Your body will also be more resistant to infections and diseases. Your immune system can kill off the bacteria before it even takes hold!

Studies have shown that vitamin C can also help to heal snack bites! Just a little fun fact, even if you live nowhere near snakes.
Get More Spinach in Your Diet

It’s not just the cruciferous vegetables that are good for you. The dark leafy greens are excellent options for your diet and are very easy to add in. While many people will think about the iron, calcium, and magnesium benefits of spinach, there is also the vitamin C benefit. This means there’s an antibacterial benefit.

Spinach helps with repairing wounds and improves development and growth. The vitamin C will help to support the immune system, killing bacteria before they get a chance to infect the body. There are studies that show foods high in vitamin C can help to fight against bacterial and viral infections.

You can eat spinach raw in salads and sandwiches. Just replace your lettuce with the leaves. It is also possible to cook it, or you can add it to the blender and use it as a base for your smoothies. Add a few berries to help balance out the bitterness of the spinach.

If you want to treat wounds directly, you can use the spinach leaves directly onto the skin. It’s also an ingredient that can be blended and used directly in your skin care.
Opt for Kale Instead

Kale is the next step up from spinach. It’s stronger in all the same benefits, but it’s all much bitterer. This is one of the biggest reasons people will opt for spinach instead.

Like with all the other vitamin C foods, kale has been proven to help fight against bacterial infections. It’s effective on the skin and within the gut. You can also help to reduce inflammation, which will also help the immune system work better than before. The reduced inflammation can also help your mental health, which in turn helps your physical health.

Opt for a kale smoothie to start your day with all the antibacterial benefits. You’ll give your immune system the boost when it most needs it, meaning you’ll find it easier to keep all infections at bay.
Don’t Forget About the Tomatoes

Okay, so tomatoes are one of those ingredients that are debated on: is it a fruit or vegetable? For this, it will be a vegetable. There are just too many antibacterial benefits to ignore it from the list because of a technicality.

Tomatoes are known for their vitamin C amounts, but that’s not the only reason they’re good for killing bacteria. They’re also acidic, helping to kill off bacteria before they cause a problem directly. The acid isn’t as strong as lemon, meaning tomatoes are perfect for sensitive skin. There are still some issues with stepping out into the sun unprotected, though.

You can eat tomatoes raw, cooked, or juice them. Make juice with a range of other antibacterial vegetables for a more powerful effect. Tomatoes are one of the cheapest vegetables out there, especially when they’re in season. If you can’t get fresh tomatoes, tinned options are good for you.
Stock Up on the Thyme

While it may be another herb, it’s technically a vegetable. You can add it to your diet in a variety of ways, including dried and through oil. Thyme essential oil is an excellent option when you want to disinfect wounds naturally. It’s still used in herbal medicine around the world.

Thyme is most effective against the bacteria that cause acne. There are studies that even show it’s highly effective. Cue the cheering of teenagers around the world! Thyme is better than benzoyl peroxide for fighting against acne-causing bacteria and doesn’t have the same side effects and the unnatural treatment. Benzoyl peroxide is known for skin irritation and burning.

You can use dried thyme in your cooking. However, there are no studies that support its effectiveness against other types of bacteria.
Switch Vegetable Oil for Oregano Oil

Oregano is another herb that’s technically a vegetable. However, you want to get the oil version of this ingredient, as it’s the most effective way to get all the benefits.

Oregano oil will kill all types of bacteria but is most effective when it comes to staph infections and MRSA. The oil also has antioxidant, antiviral, antiseptic, and anti-inflammatory benefits. When everything works together, your immune system can fight off all types of infections that will affect your health.

Apply the oil directly to wounds to help prevent sepsis kicking in. You can use it in your diet to help prevent inflammation within the digestive system and reduce inflammation around your body. It’s also worth using the oil on your athlete’s foot to get rid of the fungal infection. You can also gargle, or oil pulls to help soothe and treat sore throats.

The benefit in oregano is the thymol, which is a phenol that destroys all types of microbes. Studies have found that the oil is more effective than 18 different types of antibiotics for killing MRSA! Farmers are even using it to treat animals’ bacterial infections, helping to reduce the use of antibiotics in meat.
Finish Off with Coconut Oil

You don’t need to use oregano oil on a daily basis (it is one of the most expensive types of oils). You can look for cheaper options, and the one you want is coconut oil. Coconut is a debated ingredient like tomatoes, but we’ll include it on the vegetable list for this.

Coconut fat contains a large amount of lauric acid, which turns into monoglyceride within the body. This is where most of the antibacterial properties come from. The monoglyceride is also found in breast milk, so the benefits transfer into your baby if you’re breastfeeding. The lauric acid will also offer antifungal and antiviral properties.

Studies have shown that coconut oil will kill the Staphylococcus Aureus strain of bacteria, which is one of the most dangerous types. It will also kill Candida Albicans strains of fungus, which is the most common reason for people to develop yeast infections.

You can use coconut oil in your diet and directly on your skin. It’s highly beneficial for removing fungal infections and repairing wounds. You can also melt it and use it in oil pulling. It’s been known for removing bacteria from the mouth to prevent gum disease and tooth decay. There are also some weight loss benefits!

Raw, untreated coconut oil is the best type to use in your diet. Others can breakdown some of the antibacterial properties or treatments will cause the properties to be removed.
Add the Right Vegetables to Your Diet

When you’re looking for vegetables to stock up on this week, look out for the above 12. They are the best for fighting against bacterial infections naturally and effectively. Many of them are far better than the antibiotics that you’ll be prescribed by the doctor.

Not only can you treat infections from antibacterial-resistant bacteria, but you can also prevent infections from taking place. The nutrients within the vegetables will support your immune system to help kill infections before they have a chance to take a hold.

Use the vegetables in the ways mentioned above. Some are better raw, as they keep hold of all their nutrients. Others will be better cooked or juice to help release the nutrients from the vegetables. They become easier to absorb by the body.

No tags
Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D.
Certified Nutritionist, Doctor and Author at Positive Health Wellness

← Previous post
10 Surprising Foods All Men Should Eat - Infographic

Next post →
Top 10 Concerns Of Every New Parent - Infographic

 
Positive Health Wellness

    Earnings DisclaimerPrivacy & Cookie PolicyAmazon Affiliate Disclosure

Copyrights © 2016-2017 Positive Health Wellness. All Rights Reserved.Important Disclaimer: The information contained on Positive Health Wellness is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Any statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and any information or products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult a healthcare practitioner before making changes to your diet or taking supplements that may interfere with medications.All writing and content on Positive Health Wellness is simply the opinion of the author and should not be treated as professional medical advice.Positive Health Wellness is participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program.
Back To Top
css.php

    0
    12
    11
    10

    HomeAboutContact Us

Positive Health Wellness

    Diet & Nutrition
    Recipes
    Beauty & Aging
    Pain Relief
    Infographics

 
Diet & Nutrition	
12 Vegetables With Antibacterial Properties
by Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D. Thursday, October 5, 2017

Antibiotics are overused to the point that they’re becoming ineffective. Bacteria have evolved so that they aren’t killed off easily through pharmaceutical remedies. However, there are plenty of home remedies that still work.

Foods that you likely already have in your cupboards or fridge have antibacterial properties. They will help to kill the bacteria in your body. Bacteria can’t adapt against the antibacterial properties in natural foods since the foods will continually adapt too.

The best thing about vegetables is that they will offer other benefits. They’re full of antioxidants, antiviral properties, and anti-inflammatory properties. All these working together will help to boost your immune system, so bacteria can’t-do the damage they originally could.

Here’s a look at 12 vegetables that you need to start eating more often. Some of these are herbs and spices, but in their natural forms, they are classed as vegetables!
Stock Up on Onions

Let’s start with one of the most popular vegetables in the diet. Onions are packed with antibacterial properties thanks to the sulfur compounds within the vegetable.  The vegetable is so good that it has a deep history of being used for medicinal purposes, dating right back to the Roman era.

It’s often been used to improve circulation and reduce inflammation. This helps the body’s immune system to work more effectively against viruses and bacteria, helping to overcome colds, the flu, and persistent coughs.

It’s also been used to fight against major diseases, internally and externally. It will get rid of free radicals within the body that have been known to lead to cancer. It can also fight against Staphylococci, which is a bacterial strain that’s now resistant to most antibacterial products.
Include Garlic in All Your Meals

Garlic and onions are part of the same family and offer many of the same benefits. Studies have shown that garlic is the best vegetable when it comes to fighting against the Staphylococci strain of bacteria. It also has antifungal properties, helping to fight against most yeast infections. Many yeast infections are caused by using antibiotics!

You can use garlic in your cooking or make garlic tea. The tea will be a taste that you need to get used to, but it’s worth it when you overcome some of the most common, minor ailments that there is no treatment for.

Studies have also shown that garlic will help fight against MRSA, a super-bacteria that’s common in hospitals of all places! This is all thanks to the Allicin compound that is naturally found in garlic. It will also fight against the bacteria in ear infections. You just need to create a mixture of garlic and olive oil for direct use. Make sure you talk to your doctor about this first, as placing liquids into your ears can be dangerous. Check out more info on best foods to eat while on antibiotics here
Drink More Ginger Tea

Ginger may be considered a spice, but it’s a vegetable in its raw form. You can use either raw or dried to get results, but raw is going to be far better for you. Ginger has proven to be successful against staph infections, and is better than using antibiotics on them!

You don’t just have to drink ginger tea. You can use it in your cooking and baking for antibacterial benefits.

Ginger is full of compounds known as gingerols. They’re the reason that ginger is so effective against bacterial compounds, and can also help to fight against pathogens found in the mouth. The compounds kill bacteria on a cellular level, helping to reduce the work that your immune system has to do. You’ll witness less inflammation and find that digestive complaints become a thing of the past.

Ginger has also been known to fight against upper respiratory infections. Most doctors won’t prescribe anything to get rid of these anymore since antibiotics are useless. You can also reduce acid reflux and reduce nausea, whether from illness, pregnancy, or nerves.

The best way to use ginger is in its raw form. Add a thumb of it to your green smoothies or to some hot water to create your ginger tea. If you’re going to use ground ginger, make sure it’s organic to get all the benefits.
Stock Up on Your Cabbage

Out of all the cruciferous vegetables, cabbage is the one that you want to stock up on the most. It’s known for its healing powers and has been used throughout the centuries in herbal remedies.

There are some reasons cabbage is used for antibacterial reasons. The first is the sulfur compounds. Like with onions and garlic, the sulfur will directly kill bacteria. Another reason is the vitamin C amount.

Our bodies can’t create vitamin C on its own, nor can it store it. It’s up to us to make sure we get enough. Vitamin C is an essential antioxidant that helps to boost the immune system. It’s nature’s antibiotics. A cup of cabbage will give you 75% of your recommended daily amount! You can use that cup of cabbage in multiple ways to get all the benefits.

Cabbage juice is the most effective. It’s been used for treating ulcers and other digestive problems. Create your cabbage juice and drink it between your meals for two weeks. You can also add some honey and lemon for extra vitamin C. Stomach ulcers are attributed to H. Pylori bacteria. The juice will also help to prevent bladder infections and other similar complaints.

If you have bacterial issues on the skin, apply the cabbage leaves directly. This will help to soothe inflammation and burning, while thefight against the infection directly.

Fermenting cabbage will help to bring out more of the antibacterial properties, making it even better for you! It’s time to dish up the sauerkraut.
Enjoy More Carrots

Carrots do more than help you see in the dark. They will help fight off a range of bacterial issues. It’s one of the best and cheapest vegetables to add to your diet. You can enjoy carrots raw, cooked in your meals, or even juiced. Just make sure you get carrots in your diet on a daily basis.

The antibacterial properties will help to fight against most diseases within the eye. They can help prevent problems like cataracts and macular degeneration disease. However, they also help to relieve food poisoning and digestive issues.

Unlike most other foods, cooked carrots are better for you. Carrots are full of beta-carotene, an antioxidant that offers some of the healing benefits. The beta-carotene is released in full after cooking, making them far more beneficial for your health.

Like all other orange colored vegetables and fruits, they’re also full of vitamin C. You’ll have more protection against all types of illnesses, as your immune system gets extra support. Carrot juice is a good way to gain more vitamin C, and it’s healthier than orange juice since there aren’t as many natural sugars in carrots.
Add More Broccoli to Your Diet

While cabbage is the best cruciferous vegetable, you want to add some of the others to your diet. Broccoli is the next one that you should look towards. Not only will you get the antibacterial benefits, but many other nutrients straight into your diet. Broccoli is full of calcium and iron, offering more bone and energy support.

The antibacterial benefits come from the vitamin C, which will help to enhance your immune system. The benefits aren’t just for inside your body. You’ll also find that wounds heal much easier and quicker. Your body will also be more resistant to infections and diseases. Your immune system can kill off the bacteria before it even takes hold!

Studies have shown that vitamin C can also help to heal snack bites! Just a little fun fact, even if you live nowhere near snakes.
Get More Spinach in Your Diet

It’s not just the cruciferous vegetables that are good for you. The dark leafy greens are excellent options for your diet and are very easy to add in. While many people will think about the iron, calcium, and magnesium benefits of spinach, there is also the vitamin C benefit. This means there’s an antibacterial benefit.

Spinach helps with repairing wounds and improves development and growth. The vitamin C will help to support the immune system, killing bacteria before they get a chance to infect the body. There are studies that show foods high in vitamin C can help to fight against bacterial and viral infections.

You can eat spinach raw in salads and sandwiches. Just replace your lettuce with the leaves. It is also possible to cook it, or you can add it to the blender and use it as a base for your smoothies. Add a few berries to help balance out the bitterness of the spinach.

If you want to treat wounds directly, you can use the spinach leaves directly onto the skin. It’s also an ingredient that can be blended and used directly in your skin care.
Opt for Kale Instead

Kale is the next step up from spinach. It’s stronger in all the same benefits, but it’s all much bitterer. This is one of the biggest reasons people will opt for spinach instead.

Like with all the other vitamin C foods, kale has been proven to help fight against bacterial infections. It’s effective on the skin and within the gut. You can also help to reduce inflammation, which will also help the immune system work better than before. The reduced inflammation can also help your mental health, which in turn helps your physical health.

Opt for a kale smoothie to start your day with all the antibacterial benefits. You’ll give your immune system the boost when it most needs it, meaning you’ll find it easier to keep all infections at bay.
Don’t Forget About the Tomatoes

Okay, so tomatoes are one of those ingredients that are debated on: is it a fruit or vegetable? For this, it will be a vegetable. There are just too many antibacterial benefits to ignore it from the list because of a technicality.

Tomatoes are known for their vitamin C amounts, but that’s not the only reason they’re good for killing bacteria. They’re also acidic, helping to kill off bacteria before they cause a problem directly. The acid isn’t as strong as lemon, meaning tomatoes are perfect for sensitive skin. There are still some issues with stepping out into the sun unprotected, though.

You can eat tomatoes raw, cooked, or juice them. Make juice with a range of other antibacterial vegetables for a more powerful effect. Tomatoes are one of the cheapest vegetables out there, especially when they’re in season. If you can’t get fresh tomatoes, tinned options are good for you.
Stock Up on the Thyme

While it may be another herb, it’s technically a vegetable. You can add it to your diet in a variety of ways, including dried and through oil. Thyme essential oil is an excellent option when you want to disinfect wounds naturally. It’s still used in herbal medicine around the world.

Thyme is most effective against the bacteria that cause acne. There are studies that even show it’s highly effective. Cue the cheering of teenagers around the world! Thyme is better than benzoyl peroxide for fighting against acne-causing bacteria and doesn’t have the same side effects and the unnatural treatment. Benzoyl peroxide is known for skin irritation and burning.

You can use dried thyme in your cooking. However, there are no studies that support its effectiveness against other types of bacteria.
Switch Vegetable Oil for Oregano Oil

Oregano is another herb that’s technically a vegetable. However, you want to get the oil version of this ingredient, as it’s the most effective way to get all the benefits.

Oregano oil will kill all types of bacteria but is most effective when it comes to staph infections and MRSA. The oil also has antioxidant, antiviral, antiseptic, and anti-inflammatory benefits. When everything works together, your immune system can fight off all types of infections that will affect your health.

Apply the oil directly to wounds to help prevent sepsis kicking in. You can use it in your diet to help prevent inflammation within the digestive system and reduce inflammation around your body. It’s also worth using the oil on your athlete’s foot to get rid of the fungal infection. You can also gargle, or oil pulls to help soothe and treat sore throats.

The benefit in oregano is the thymol, which is a phenol that destroys all types of microbes. Studies have found that the oil is more effective than 18 different types of antibiotics for killing MRSA! Farmers are even using it to treat animals’ bacterial infections, helping to reduce the use of antibiotics in meat.
Finish Off with Coconut Oil

You don’t need to use oregano oil on a daily basis (it is one of the most expensive types of oils). You can look for cheaper options, and the one you want is coconut oil. Coconut is a debated ingredient like tomatoes, but we’ll include it on the vegetable list for this.

Coconut fat contains a large amount of lauric acid, which turns into monoglyceride within the body. This is where most of the antibacterial properties come from. The monoglyceride is also found in breast milk, so the benefits transfer into your baby if you’re breastfeeding. The lauric acid will also offer antifungal and antiviral properties.

Studies have shown that coconut oil will kill the Staphylococcus Aureus strain of bacteria, which is one of the most dangerous types. It will also kill Candida Albicans strains of fungus, which is the most common reason for people to develop yeast infections.

You can use coconut oil in your diet and directly on your skin. It’s highly beneficial for removing fungal infections and repairing wounds. You can also melt it and use it in oil pulling. It’s been known for removing bacteria from the mouth to prevent gum disease and tooth decay. There are also some weight loss benefits!

Raw, untreated coconut oil is the best type to use in your diet. Others can breakdown some of the antibacterial properties or treatments will cause the properties to be removed.
Add the Right Vegetables to Your Diet

When you’re looking for vegetables to stock up on this week, look out for the above 12. They are the best for fighting against bacterial infections naturally and effectively. Many of them are far better than the antibiotics that you’ll be prescribed by the doctor.

Not only can you treat infections from antibacterial-resistant bacteria, but you can also prevent infections from taking place. The nutrients within the vegetables will support your immune system to help kill infections before they have a chance to take a hold.

Use the vegetables in the ways mentioned above. Some are better raw, as they keep hold of all their nutrients. Others will be better cooked or juice to help release the nutrients from the vegetables. They become easier to absorb by the body.

No tags
Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D.
Certified Nutritionist, Doctor and Author at Positive Health Wellness

← Previous post
10 Surprising Foods All Men Should Eat - Infographic

Next post →
Top 10 Concerns Of Every New Parent - Infographic

 
Positive Health Wellness

    Earnings DisclaimerPrivacy & Cookie PolicyAmazon Affiliate Disclosure

Copyrights © 2016-2017 Positive Health Wellness. All Rights Reserved.Important Disclaimer: The information contained on Positive Health Wellness is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Any statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and any information or products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult a healthcare practitioner before making changes to your diet or taking supplements that may interfere with medications.All writing and content on Positive Health Wellness is simply the opinion of the author and should not be treated as professional medical advice.Positive Health Wellness is participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program.
Back To Top
css.php

    0
    12
    11
    10





    HomeAboutContact Us

Positive Health Wellness

    Diet & Nutrition
    Recipes
    Beauty & Aging
    Pain Relief
    Infographics

 
Diet & Nutrition	
12 Vegetables With Antibacterial Properties
by Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D. Thursday, October 5, 2017

Antibiotics are overused to the point that they’re becoming ineffective. Bacteria have evolved so that they aren’t killed off easily through pharmaceutical remedies. However, there are plenty of home remedies that still work.

Foods that you likely already have in your cupboards or fridge have antibacterial properties. They will help to kill the bacteria in your body. Bacteria can’t adapt against the antibacterial properties in natural foods since the foods will continually adapt too.

The best thing about vegetables is that they will offer other benefits. They’re full of antioxidants, antiviral properties, and anti-inflammatory properties. All these working together will help to boost your immune system, so bacteria can’t-do the damage they originally could.

Here’s a look at 12 vegetables that you need to start eating more often. Some of these are herbs and spices, but in their natural forms, they are classed as vegetables!
Stock Up on Onions

Let’s start with one of the most popular vegetables in the diet. Onions are packed with antibacterial properties thanks to the sulfur compounds within the vegetable.  The vegetable is so good that it has a deep history of being used for medicinal purposes, dating right back to the Roman era.

It’s often been used to improve circulation and reduce inflammation. This helps the body’s immune system to work more effectively against viruses and bacteria, helping to overcome colds, the flu, and persistent coughs.

It’s also been used to fight against major diseases, internally and externally. It will get rid of free radicals within the body that have been known to lead to cancer. It can also fight against Staphylococci, which is a bacterial strain that’s now resistant to most antibacterial products.
Include Garlic in All Your Meals

Garlic and onions are part of the same family and offer many of the same benefits. Studies have shown that garlic is the best vegetable when it comes to fighting against the Staphylococci strain of bacteria. It also has antifungal properties, helping to fight against most yeast infections. Many yeast infections are caused by using antibiotics!

You can use garlic in your cooking or make garlic tea. The tea will be a taste that you need to get used to, but it’s worth it when you overcome some of the most common, minor ailments that there is no treatment for.

Studies have also shown that garlic will help fight against MRSA, a super-bacteria that’s common in hospitals of all places! This is all thanks to the Allicin compound that is naturally found in garlic. It will also fight against the bacteria in ear infections. You just need to create a mixture of garlic and olive oil for direct use. Make sure you talk to your doctor about this first, as placing liquids into your ears can be dangerous. Check out more info on best foods to eat while on antibiotics here
Drink More Ginger Tea

Ginger may be considered a spice, but it’s a vegetable in its raw form. You can use either raw or dried to get results, but raw is going to be far better for you. Ginger has proven to be successful against staph infections, and is better than using antibiotics on them!

You don’t just have to drink ginger tea. You can use it in your cooking and baking for antibacterial benefits.

Ginger is full of compounds known as gingerols. They’re the reason that ginger is so effective against bacterial compounds, and can also help to fight against pathogens found in the mouth. The compounds kill bacteria on a cellular level, helping to reduce the work that your immune system has to do. You’ll witness less inflammation and find that digestive complaints become a thing of the past.

Ginger has also been known to fight against upper respiratory infections. Most doctors won’t prescribe anything to get rid of these anymore since antibiotics are useless. You can also reduce acid reflux and reduce nausea, whether from illness, pregnancy, or nerves.

The best way to use ginger is in its raw form. Add a thumb of it to your green smoothies or to some hot water to create your ginger tea. If you’re going to use ground ginger, make sure it’s organic to get all the benefits.
Stock Up on Your Cabbage

Out of all the cruciferous vegetables, cabbage is the one that you want to stock up on the most. It’s known for its healing powers and has been used throughout the centuries in herbal remedies.

There are some reasons cabbage is used for antibacterial reasons. The first is the sulfur compounds. Like with onions and garlic, the sulfur will directly kill bacteria. Another reason is the vitamin C amount.

Our bodies can’t create vitamin C on its own, nor can it store it. It’s up to us to make sure we get enough. Vitamin C is an essential antioxidant that helps to boost the immune system. It’s nature’s antibiotics. A cup of cabbage will give you 75% of your recommended daily amount! You can use that cup of cabbage in multiple ways to get all the benefits.

Cabbage juice is the most effective. It’s been used for treating ulcers and other digestive problems. Create your cabbage juice and drink it between your meals for two weeks. You can also add some honey and lemon for extra vitamin C. Stomach ulcers are attributed to H. Pylori bacteria. The juice will also help to prevent bladder infections and other similar complaints.

If you have bacterial issues on the skin, apply the cabbage leaves directly. This will help to soothe inflammation and burning, while thefight against the infection directly.

Fermenting cabbage will help to bring out more of the antibacterial properties, making it even better for you! It’s time to dish up the sauerkraut.
Enjoy More Carrots

Carrots do more than help you see in the dark. They will help fight off a range of bacterial issues. It’s one of the best and cheapest vegetables to add to your diet. You can enjoy carrots raw, cooked in your meals, or even juiced. Just make sure you get carrots in your diet on a daily basis.

The antibacterial properties will help to fight against most diseases within the eye. They can help prevent problems like cataracts and macular degeneration disease. However, they also help to relieve food poisoning and digestive issues.

Unlike most other foods, cooked carrots are better for you. Carrots are full of beta-carotene, an antioxidant that offers some of the healing benefits. The beta-carotene is released in full after cooking, making them far more beneficial for your health.

Like all other orange colored vegetables and fruits, they’re also full of vitamin C. You’ll have more protection against all types of illnesses, as your immune system gets extra support. Carrot juice is a good way to gain more vitamin C, and it’s healthier than orange juice since there aren’t as many natural sugars in carrots.
Add More Broccoli to Your Diet

While cabbage is the best cruciferous vegetable, you want to add some of the others to your diet. Broccoli is the next one that you should look towards. Not only will you get the antibacterial benefits, but many other nutrients straight into your diet. Broccoli is full of calcium and iron, offering more bone and energy support.

The antibacterial benefits come from the vitamin C, which will help to enhance your immune system. The benefits aren’t just for inside your body. You’ll also find that wounds heal much easier and quicker. Your body will also be more resistant to infections and diseases. Your immune system can kill off the bacteria before it even takes hold!

Studies have shown that vitamin C can also help to heal snack bites! Just a little fun fact, even if you live nowhere near snakes.
Get More Spinach in Your Diet

It’s not just the cruciferous vegetables that are good for you. The dark leafy greens are excellent options for your diet and are very easy to add in. While many people will think about the iron, calcium, and magnesium benefits of spinach, there is also the vitamin C benefit. This means there’s an antibacterial benefit.

Spinach helps with repairing wounds and improves development and growth. The vitamin C will help to support the immune system, killing bacteria before they get a chance to infect the body. There are studies that show foods high in vitamin C can help to fight against bacterial and viral infections.

You can eat spinach raw in salads and sandwiches. Just replace your lettuce with the leaves. It is also possible to cook it, or you can add it to the blender and use it as a base for your smoothies. Add a few berries to help balance out the bitterness of the spinach.

If you want to treat wounds directly, you can use the spinach leaves directly onto the skin. It’s also an ingredient that can be blended and used directly in your skin care.
Opt for Kale Instead

Kale is the next step up from spinach. It’s stronger in all the same benefits, but it’s all much bitterer. This is one of the biggest reasons people will opt for spinach instead.

Like with all the other vitamin C foods, kale has been proven to help fight against bacterial infections. It’s effective on the skin and within the gut. You can also help to reduce inflammation, which will also help the immune system work better than before. The reduced inflammation can also help your mental health, which in turn helps your physical health.

Opt for a kale smoothie to start your day with all the antibacterial benefits. You’ll give your immune system the boost when it most needs it, meaning you’ll find it easier to keep all infections at bay.
Don’t Forget About the Tomatoes

Okay, so tomatoes are one of those ingredients that are debated on: is it a fruit or vegetable? For this, it will be a vegetable. There are just too many antibacterial benefits to ignore it from the list because of a technicality.

Tomatoes are known for their vitamin C amounts, but that’s not the only reason they’re good for killing bacteria. They’re also acidic, helping to kill off bacteria before they cause a problem directly. The acid isn’t as strong as lemon, meaning tomatoes are perfect for sensitive skin. There are still some issues with stepping out into the sun unprotected, though.

You can eat tomatoes raw, cooked, or juice them. Make juice with a range of other antibacterial vegetables for a more powerful effect. Tomatoes are one of the cheapest vegetables out there, especially when they’re in season. If you can’t get fresh tomatoes, tinned options are good for you.
Stock Up on the Thyme

While it may be another herb, it’s technically a vegetable. You can add it to your diet in a variety of ways, including dried and through oil. Thyme essential oil is an excellent option when you want to disinfect wounds naturally. It’s still used in herbal medicine around the world.

Thyme is most effective against the bacteria that cause acne. There are studies that even show it’s highly effective. Cue the cheering of teenagers around the world! Thyme is better than benzoyl peroxide for fighting against acne-causing bacteria and doesn’t have the same side effects and the unnatural treatment. Benzoyl peroxide is known for skin irritation and burning.

You can use dried thyme in your cooking. However, there are no studies that support its effectiveness against other types of bacteria.
Switch Vegetable Oil for Oregano Oil

Oregano is another herb that’s technically a vegetable. However, you want to get the oil version of this ingredient, as it’s the most effective way to get all the benefits.

Oregano oil will kill all types of bacteria but is most effective when it comes to staph infections and MRSA. The oil also has antioxidant, antiviral, antiseptic, and anti-inflammatory benefits. When everything works together, your immune system can fight off all types of infections that will affect your health.

Apply the oil directly to wounds to help prevent sepsis kicking in. You can use it in your diet to help prevent inflammation within the digestive system and reduce inflammation around your body. It’s also worth using the oil on your athlete’s foot to get rid of the fungal infection. You can also gargle, or oil pulls to help soothe and treat sore throats.

The benefit in oregano is the thymol, which is a phenol that destroys all types of microbes. Studies have found that the oil is more effective than 18 different types of antibiotics for killing MRSA! Farmers are even using it to treat animals’ bacterial infections, helping to reduce the use of antibiotics in meat.
Finish Off with Coconut Oil

You don’t need to use oregano oil on a daily basis (it is one of the most expensive types of oils). You can look for cheaper options, and the one you want is coconut oil. Coconut is a debated ingredient like tomatoes, but we’ll include it on the vegetable list for this.

Coconut fat contains a large amount of lauric acid, which turns into monoglyceride within the body. This is where most of the antibacterial properties come from. The monoglyceride is also found in breast milk, so the benefits transfer into your baby if you’re breastfeeding. The lauric acid will also offer antifungal and antiviral properties.

Studies have shown that coconut oil will kill the Staphylococcus Aureus strain of bacteria, which is one of the most dangerous types. It will also kill Candida Albicans strains of fungus, which is the most common reason for people to develop yeast infections.

You can use coconut oil in your diet and directly on your skin. It’s highly beneficial for removing fungal infections and repairing wounds. You can also melt it and use it in oil pulling. It’s been known for removing bacteria from the mouth to prevent gum disease and tooth decay. There are also some weight loss benefits!

Raw, untreated coconut oil is the best type to use in your diet. Others can breakdown some of the antibacterial properties or treatments will cause the properties to be removed.
Add the Right Vegetables to Your Diet

When you’re looking for vegetables to stock up on this week, look out for the above 12. They are the best for fighting against bacterial infections naturally and effectively. Many of them are far better than the antibiotics that you’ll be prescribed by the doctor.

Not only can you treat infections from antibacterial-resistant bacteria, but you can also prevent infections from taking place. The nutrients within the vegetables will support your immune system to help kill infections before they have a chance to take a hold.

Use the vegetables in the ways mentioned above. Some are better raw, as they keep hold of all their nutrients. Others will be better cooked or juice to help release the nutrients from the vegetables. They become easier to absorb by the body.

No tags
Dr. Karen Reed Ph. D.
Certified Nutritionist, Doctor and Author at Positive Health Wellness

← Previous post
10 Surprising Foods All Men Should Eat - Infographic

Next post →
Top 10 Concerns Of Every New Parent - Infographic

 
Positive Health Wellness

    Earnings DisclaimerPrivacy & Cookie PolicyAmazon Affiliate Disclosure

Copyrights © 2016-2017 Positive Health Wellness. All Rights Reserved.Important Disclaimer: The information contained on Positive Health Wellness is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Any statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and any information or products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult a healthcare practitioner before making changes to your diet or taking supplements that may interfere with medications.All writing and content on Positive Health Wellness is simply the opinion of the author and should not be treated as professional medical advice.Positive Health Wellness is participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program.
Back To Top
css.php

    0
    12
    11
    10



Young and Raw

    Lifestyle
    Healthy Recipes
    Programs
    Apps
    Ambassadors

Home Lifestyle Health and Wellness
10 Antibacterial Foods to Fight Infection Naturally
By
Ali Washington

5 Ways to Use Ginger as a Super Herb

Microbes are pathogenic organisms that tend to make us sick. Your body works all day every day fighting off these microbes in order to keep you healthy. That is why you have an immune system! Sometimes however the immune system needs a little help. We have developed ways of fighting microbes through antibacterial drugs, rubs, soaps and washes but did you know that nature created some antimicrobial agents as well? Here are some foods you can use to help defend your body against microbes:

1. Garlic – Garlic is one of the most powerful anti-microbial foods you can eat. It contains several components that will fight against yeast, fungus, worms and even candida overgrowth.

2. Coconut Oil – Coconut oil contains a medium chain fatty acid called lauric acid that lends coconut its antibacterial properties.

3. Ginger – The compound in ginger known as gingerol has been shown to help fight infections, specifically those in the mouth.

4. Fermented Foods – Fermented foods carry all of the benefits of their raw components, as well as the proactive antimicrobial component of probiotics. These good bacteria are a large part of your bodies defence arsenal.

5. Lemons – Lemons contain two compounds called coumarin and tetrazine, both of which can help fight against several pathogens. Lemons have protective effects both inside and outside the body.

6. Horseradish – Horseradish was known as an antibacterial food all the way back in the 1950s. It has been used to help treat urinary tract infections and lung infections and in Germany is known as one of the best anti-microbial foods you can consume.

7. Pineapple – Pineapple contains an enzyme called bromelain, which is helpful for digestion but is also anti-microbial. It has been used as a mouth wash to kill invading cells in the mouth and throat.

8. Turmeric – Turmeric has some of the most reliable scientific backing when it comes to its anti-microbial power. It has studies to prove its effectiveness against Bacillus cereus, Bacillus coagulans, Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The compound that lends the bright orange colour to turmeric is the same compound that gives it its anti-microbial power.

9. Honey – Honey was actually one of the first anti-microbial medicines the be used long before pharmaceuticals were around. Honey contains an enzyme that releases hydrogen peroxide, which effectively kills off certain kinds of bacteria. Make sure that your honey is raw and unprocessed. Pasteurized honey will not have the same effect.

10. Cabbage – A member of the Brassica family of veggies, cabbage has been used as a treatment for a plethora of ailments. It has cancer fighting properties, as well as a high vitamin C content which we all know boosts our immune systems and helps us to fight off foreign invaders. Cabbage juice is also an effective remedy for stomach ulcers.

So next time you feel yourself getting sick, try adding some of these foods to your diet for a few days and see how it goes! What are some of your favorite antibacterial foods to add to the list?

 

    About Latest Posts

Ali Washington
Creator at The Perception Trainers
Ali Washington is an inspirational speaker, author and coach who believes that health and wellness should not only be easy and natural, but also fun. Through techniques acquired from life coaching, yoga, psychology, nutrition and energy medicine, Ali works to empower those who cross her path to learn to trust their own bodies, minds and emotions. She believes that YOU are the expert on you, and she is simply there to offer you tools and techniques for reacquainting yourself with your own inner knowledge. ind her book The Perception Diet Here: http://perceptiondiet.com/

    TAGS
    10 Antibacterial Foods to Fight Infection Naturally
    anti-bacterial
    anti-biotic foods
    fermented foods
    foods for the cold and flu
    garlic anti-bacterial
    ginger
    healing foods
    how to prevent a cold and flu
    microbes
    natural antibiotics

Previous article
Vitamin D is Actually a Hormone: Here’s Why You Need It
Next article
5 Tips for Having a Healthy (and sane) Holiday Experience!
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Health and Wellness
How My Relationship with Food has Changed Through Motherhood
Health and Wellness
6 Delicious Foods That Help Fight Depression
Health and Wellness
10 Bountiful Benefits of Basil
Ad

Our mission is to make eating R.E.A.L. Food Fun!

Restorative Energetic Authentic Living is our premise for educating and inspiring our readers to live a more fun and healthy lifestyle.

    Media Kit / Advertise with Us Contact Us Disclaimer 

© Copyright - Young and Raw

America’s fruit and vegetable consumption is eroding over time. We must act NOW to reverse this trend.
Learn More
































































    Fruits & Veggies F&V Inspo Recipes Expert Advice Contributors 

    Sign Up
    Log In

Filter By:
Stories
Fruits, Vegetables & Your Immune System

Nutrition experts agree that fending off a virus is a lot more complicated than simply eating extra fruits and vegetables (for the antioxidants) or special types of yogurt (for its helpful bacteria, or probiotics). There’s no single food – or even group of foods – that can be counted on to keep you well.

The immune system is a very complex relationship of various functions within the body. We know that if the system is deficient, you’re susceptible to infection. For your body to function at its best, it’s important to eat a variety of foods, as outlined in MyPlate.gov, to give your body all the various vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients that it needs. That said, of all foods, Americans fall short most regularly in their fruit and vegetable consumption, which could have a compromising effect on the immune system.

In any case, good hygiene is far more important to fend off viruses than eating certain foods. You can’t drink a glass of orange juice in the morning and then decide that you don’t have to wash your hands today.

Physicians and registered dietitians agree that the familiar prescription of a well-rounded, healthful diet that includes plenty of fruits and vegetables can provide the central nutrients your body, including your immune system, needs to stay healthy. You need to have a healthy diet in general to have a generally healthy immune system. Some nutrients are known to play a role in immune system health, including the antioxidants Vitamin E and Vitamin C, the minerals selenium and zinc, Vitamin D, and fish oils containing omega-3 fatty acids. But that doesn’t mean that eating more than the recommended amount will necessarily boost your immune system. And even eating your recommended amount of fruits and vegetables each day won’t guarantee that you won’t be sneezing this winter, but it will give your body’s defenses the nutrition they need to do their job of preventing you from getting sick.

Food remains just part of the equation. Getting vaccines, eating the recommended amounts of fruits and vegetables, washing your hands frequently, and getting enough sleep each night are all key to keeping your body’s immune defenses at their best.

We all might be feeling a little vulnerable right now and can use some peace of mind during this stressful time. Have A Plant® Ambassador Dr. Joan Salge Blake, EdD, RDN, LDN, FAND provides tips to give us just that via her podcast Spot On! Check it out for more immune-boosting tips.
Get the Newsletter

Sign up for the latest tips to help you add more fruits & veggies to your day.

Other Stories
About The Buzz: Yams Reduce Your Risk for Developing Heart Disease
About The Buzz: Citrus fruit can help prevent the cold and flu?
Fight the Flu with Your Fork!









Committed to helping people enjoy happier, healthier
lives by eating more fruits and vegetables every day.
Donate
Get The Newsletter

    About
    Have A Plant®
    Have A Plant® Ambassadors
    National Fruits & Veggies Month

    Research & Consumer Insights
    Educational Resources
    National Fruit & Vegetable
    Consumption Coalition

    Partnership
    Lead The Change
    Annual Reports
    Press Room

© 2022 Produce for Better Health Foundation. All rights reserved.     Terms & Conditions     Privacy Policy



Dose of Healthcare Logo	
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Search
Dose of Healthcare Logo	

Fighting Infections With Fruit – Our Guide to a Healthy Lifestyle

    July 18, 2020
    8:32 am

Healthcare
orange fruit in white ceramic plate close-up photography	

While the COVID-19 pandemic continues to wreak havoc around the globe, it has become increasingly crucial to protect ourselves not only by practicing good hygiene but also by strengthening our immune system with proper diet and exercise. 

According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the US Department of Agriculture (USDA), 92% of Americans are found to be vitamin deficient. An alarming 9 out of every 10 people in the country who aren’t getting enough essential nutrients in their diet. This may be in large part because of poor eating habits and the widespread availability of processed foods on supermarket shelves.

A well-rounded diet includes consuming a healthy variety of fruits and vegetables. People living in metropolitan areas often live very hectic lives and aren’t able to spend enough time planning a healthy diet involving fresh produce. Eating fruit must be a positive habit that is deliberately included in our daily diet. 
Health Benefits of Fruits

Experts generally recommend eating at least five servings daily or about 400 grams of fruit. By consuming this amount, fruit intake has proven to lower the risk of cancer, cardiovascular disease,  and stroke. Eating fruits regularly is associated with stronger immune systems, improved blood circulation, and weight loss. 

Fruits are excellent sources of essential vitamins and minerals like Vitamin A, potassium, and folate, which your body needs to rebuild cells. Fruits are also rich in fiber, which help clean your digestive system and flush out toxins from your body. High levels of toxins that the body cannot expel quickly enough damage organs leading to symptoms of fatigue, impairment of brain function, or inflammation.

Certain fruits like berries, grapes, and pomegranates are packed with antioxidants that prevent cell damage and neutralize free radicals in our bodies. Apricots, oranges, and other citrus fruits like grapefruit contain vitamin C, which is another powerful antioxidant. Watermelons are a good source of yet another antioxidant, glutathione. These substances promote cellular health and can delay the signs of aging.
Misconceptions

There are many misconceptions surrounding fruits. Many people think that fruits are high in sugar that causes you to gain weight or may put you at risk for diseases such as diabetes. While some fruits can taste very sweet, the natural sugar in fruit is actually more easily digested by our bodies. Fruits are low in fructose, which is in contrast to other tablets or additive sugars like high-fructose corn syrup, which are more harmful to your system when eaten excessively. It is generally safe for people suffering from diabetes to consume fruit.

Some people also mistakenly believe that eating certain fruits can upset your stomach. While this is true for most any food, fruit is not the cause of indigestion. In fact, being high in fiber, fruits promote healthy digestion and prevent bloating and acidity.

Fruit juices should be carefully selected–while it may sound like a good alternative, some fruit juices contain only less than half of actual fruit juice in each serving. Fruit juice is a good way to consume your recommended daily intake if you choose a 100% fruit juice product.
Conclusion

Fruits should be part of a regular well-balanced diet to promote overall physical and mental health. Vitamin deficiency is a common but easily remedied dietary issue that can lead to serious diseases if left untreated. Eating the recommended daily servings of fruits is a simple and delicious way to fight off infection, delay aging, and strengthen your immune system. 

Want to learn more about maintaining a healthy lifestyle? Keep up to date with the latest healthcare news with us at Dose of Healthcare!  
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Whatsapp
Linkedin
Skype
Telegram
Viber
Pinterest
Reddit
Envelope
PrevPrevious5 Surprising Ways Extra Virgin Olive Oil Is Good for Your Health
NextExperts Warn About Inaccurate Blood Pressure Readings at HomeNext

Related Posts

Recent Posts

Skip to content
Top Navigation
EatingWell
Profile Menu
Login

    Home

Healthy Eating 101

    How to Eat Healthy
    The 7 Best Fruits for Fighting Inflammation

The 7 Best Fruits for Fighting Inflammation
Snack on these anti-inflammatory fruits for an easy and delicious health boost.
Carolyn Williams Headshot
Carolyn Williams, Ph.D., RD
Reviewed by Dietitian Victoria Seaver, M.S., RD June 30, 2020
Pin
FB

You're not alone if you've questioned the role of fruit in a healthy diet. The popularity of low-carb and keto diets, along with consumers becoming more sugar-aware, has left many to feel that it may be best to limit (or worse, avoid) fruit intake altogether. But fruit can—and should—be part of a healthy diet, since it offers anti-inflammatory benefits you really don't want to miss out on.

Related: Healthy Anti-Inflammatory Recipes

While fruits do contain sugar, it's a natural form of sugar (not added sugar, which is linked to obesity and chronic health issues), and it boasts good-for-you fiber, antioxidants and bioactive compounds. Sure, you can go overboard (even with natural sugar), but if you're sticking to two or three servings of fruit a day you're fine. And if you want the biggest bang for your buck, choose some of these top anti-inflammatory fruits when possible.
1. Cherries

Recipe pictured above: Anti-Inflammatory Cherry-Spinach Smoothie

Research suggests that both sweet and tart cherry varieties lower inflammatory blood proteins to offer pain relief effects comparable to ibuprofen. In fact, the Arthritis Foundation suggests eating cherries as a way to ease joint issues related to arthritis and gout.

Anthocyanins and other polyphenolic compounds in cherries appear to reduce inflammation by stopping potential free radicals from damaging cells, but they may also help one get more restful sleep—a lifestyle factor that's key in preventing and easing inflammation. Cherries appear to do this by increasing melatonin levels and stopping inflammatory cytokines that disrupt sleep.
2. Strawberries

When it comes to vitamin C, oranges tend to get all the credit, yet the reality is that one cup of strawberries provides 100% of daily vitamin C—more than a medium orange! While the vitamin provides a host of benefits, getting adequate vitamin C is particularly important for proper immune functioning since inflammation occurs when the immune system becomes stressed and overworked. The antioxidant vitamin also offers additional anti-inflammatory benefits by stopping free radicals from damaging cells to trigger new inflammation.
3. Watermelon

Recipe pictured above: Watermelon, Orange & Cucumber Salad with Castelvetrano Olive Vinaigrette

A refreshing treat in hot summer months, watermelon is known for being sweet and juicy, but the melon's nutritional perks are rarely mentioned. However, watermelon is one of the few food sources of lycopene, a powerful compound that's responsible for the melon's pink-red hue and protects the body free radicals damage. Research suggests that lycopene offers an antioxidant-like protection that may prevent cell mutations, halt cancer growth, and reduce risks of Alzheimer's disease, heart disease, and diabetes risk.
4. Apples

Apples don't have as near as many of the antioxidant-like compounds that berries do, but they can reduce inflammation in another way by strengthening your gut microbiome. Apples contain around 3 grams of fiber, a large portion of which is a soluble, fermentable type called pectin which good bacteria strains in the gut need to thrive and grow. Often referred to as prebiotics, these fibers can improve the composition of microbes in the gut. Doing this creates a stronger intestinal lining that fewer inflammatory compounds can cross to get into the body.
5. Pineapple

Recipe pictured above: Grilled Pork Chops with Chile & Pineapple

Pineapples contain bromelain, a unique enzyme that has anti-inflammatory, anti-clotting and anti-cancer effects. Bromelain shows the greatest potential in preventing cancer growth by suppressing inflammatory factors that promote cell mutation and metastasis, and therapeutic supplements of bromelain may even provide some pain relief for certain forms of arthritis. Research also suggests that the enzyme may speed up muscle recovery after strenuous workouts by decreasing inflammation.
6. Avocado

It's easy to forget that avocados are a fruit, and their nutritional profile looks quite different. But this means avocados offer some anti-inflammatory benefits that you can't get from other fruit. The creamy fruit is full of monounsaturated fats, vitamin E, fiber and carotenoids which collectively work together to soothe inflammation in the body. Even more impressive, though, is that these nutrients appear to counteract some inflammation triggered by less-healthy foods eaten around the same time.
7. Blueberries

Recipe pictured above: Yogurt with Blueberries & Honey

Polyphenolic compounds give blueberries their vibrant purple-blue color, and these compounds also act as antioxidants to ease existing inflammation and prevent free radicals from triggering new inflammation. In fact, studies suggest that regularly eating blueberries appears to exert anti-inflammatory effects that have the potential to decrease blood pressure, improve blood flow and protect brain cells from neuroinflammation. And because most are flash-frozen right after being picked, frozen blueberries are ideal to keep on hand to toss in a smoothie for a daily dose of antioxidants and anthocyanins.

Carolyn Williams, PhD, RD, is author to the new cookbook, Meals That Heal: 100 Everyday Anti-Inflammatory Recipes in 30 Minutes or Less, and a culinary nutrition expert known for ability to simplify food and nutrition information. She received a 2017 James Beard Journalism award. You can follow her on Instagram @realfoodreallife_rd or on carolynwilliamsrd.com.
Popular in How to Eat Healthy

    A golden scale with chocolate bars on one side and cocoa beans on the other

Pin
From Bean to Bar—What You Need to Know About Ethical Chocolate
Article
Quinoa Avocado Salad with Buttermilk Dressing
Pin
Eating More Fiber from Whole Grains Could Decrease Inflammation, According to New Research
Article
ketchup bottle on a designed background
Pin
13 Unexpected Items That Don't Need to Be Refrigerated
Article
Yuzu on a designed background
Pin
What Is Yuzu and How Do I Use It?
Article
Pin
7 Anti-Inflammatory Foods You Should Be Eating This Winter
Video
Pin
What Happens to Your Body If You Drink Milk Every Day
Video
Pin
The 7 Best Spices for Fighting Inflammation
Video
Pin
Inflammation Might Be the Reason You Can't Poop—Here's What to Do About It
Article
Pin
The #1 Snack to Eat to Help Decrease Inflammation, According to a Dietitian
Article
Pin
26 Anti-Inflammatory Breakfasts You Can Make in 15 Minutes or Less
Pin
7 Carbs You Should Be Buying to Lower Cholesterol, According to a Dietitian 
Article
Pin
How to Make a Healthy Charcuterie Board
Video
Pin
6 Things You Should Never Put in the Air Fryer
Video
Pin
Is Grilled Meat Bad for You?
Video
Pin
Inflammation Might Be The Reason You Can't Sleep—Here's What to Do About It
Video
Pin
8 Anti-Inflammatory Foods to Eat for Better Sleep
Video
Pin
The 10 Best Anti-Inflammatory Foods for Heart Health
Video
Pin
Inflammation-Fighting Foods, Ranked From Worst to Best
Video
Pin
Top 10 Sources of Saturated Fat in Our Diets
Video
Pin
13 Best and Worst Snacks for Inflammation

    Video

All Topics in How to Eat Healthy

    Best Healthy Foods Entertaining Eat More Vegetables The Beet Plant Your Plate Budget Cooking Guide Wine, Beer & Spirits Guide How to Eat Healthy Ask the Test Kitchen Good Food Fast 

EatingWell
Magazines & More
Learn More

    About Us
    Contact Us
    Advertise
    Content Licensing
    Recipe Index
    Jobs
    Accolades this link opens in a new tab

Connect
Follow Us
Subscribe to Our Newsletters
Sign Up
Meredith
© 2022 EatingWell.com is part of the Allrecipes Food Group. EatingWell may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. All Right Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Privacy Policythis link opens in a new tab Ad Choicesthis link opens in a new tab Terms of Servicethis link opens in a new tab Web Accessibilitythis link opens in a new tab
this link is to an external site that may or may not meet accessibility guidelines.

Search bar input

    News
    Healthy Eating
    Groceries
    Weight Loss
    Restaurants
    Recipes
    Drinks
    ETNT Health
    Mind + Body
    Celeb News

Skip to content

    Healthy Eating

11 Best Immune-Boosting Foods to Fight COVID-19, Say Doctors
You'll want to keep these foods in your meal rotation.
Rebecca Strong	
By Rebecca Strong
Updated on December 18, 2020 | 8:06 AM
FACT CHECKED BY
Kiersten Hickman
ladle bowl of soup into bowl for dinner
Shutterstock

Unfortunately, the coronavirus pandemic is still in full swing—and as a result, the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) is maintaining its recommendations to wash your hands frequently, wear a face covering when around others, practice social distancing, and regularly disinfect household surfaces in order to protect yourself. But your body also has its own defense system, too: the immune system. Fortunately, doctors say that there are certain foods that can enhance this complex network's ability to fight off infections like the coronavirus. The best immune-boosting foods to fight COVID-19 range from fruits and veggies to spices and shellfish—but the thing they all have in common is that they provide the key nutrients your body needs.

Antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals play a major role in how effectively your immune system can respond to invaders—like virus particles that enter your system. That's why one of the best ways to ward off illness is to stick to a healthy, diverse diet.

"With both the pandemic and the flu becoming more severe during the colder months, It's especially important to ensure your immune system is in a good position to fight the virus if you do get COVID-19 or any other illness," says Dr. Nate Favini, MD, MS, and Medical Lead of the preventive primary care practice Forward. "There are many factors that play a role in boosting your immune system—but your diet, your exercise, the amount of sleep that you get, and your stress levels are the biggest factors that are under your control. You should eat a well-balanced diet that is rich in vegetables and healthy oils, and low in sugar and processed foods."

Here are some foods and beverages you'll want to stock up on stat in order to ensure your immune system is in tip-top condition amidst the pandemic. And for more healthy tips, be sure to check out our list of The 7 Healthiest Foods to Eat Right Now.
1
Bone broth
bone broth soup
Shutterstock

According to Dr. Josh Axe, D.N.M., C.N.S, founder of Ancient Nutrition and author of the upcoming book Ancient Remedies, bone broth boosts the immune system by supporting the health of your gut and reducing inflammation. It contains collagen and amino acids, both of which play a crucial role in gut health—which as it turns out, is linked to immune health. Some of the amino acids that bone broth contains include:

    Glutamine, which helps to rev up your metabolism so your immune system can work more efficiently
    Glycine, which improves your quality of sleep, an essential aspect of immune health
    Arginine, which is crucial for liver and immune system functioning

While you can find commercially prepared packaged bone broths at many health food stores, Dr. Axe highly recommends making your own at home—using a combination of pasture-feed, and hormone- and antibiotic-free animal products as well as vegetables—in order to maximize the potential benefits.

Here are 11 Healthy Habits to Make Your Immune System Stronger.
2
Citrus fruits
citrus
Shutterstock

This should come as no surprise, but experts highly recommend adding some citrus fruit to your diet. These fruits are packed with vitamin C—which according to Dr. Axe, can strengthen the immune system.

"Some studies have shown that for people with increased stress on their bodies (athletes like marathoners or skiers and soldiers in subarctic conditions), vitamin C may be helpful in reducing the risk of getting the common cold, perhaps cutting infection rates by as much as 50%," says Dr. Favini. "Other studies in the general population have demonstrated that Vitamin C can shorten the duration of the common cold as well."

It's worth noting that oranges and grapefruit are better sources of vitamin C than lemons and limes.

Here's What Taking Vitamin C Every Day Does to Your Body.
3
Ginger
Sliced ginger and ginger root on wooden cutting board
Shutterstock

Ever noticed how many green juices and other so-called health drinks have ginger in them? Well, there's a good reason for this.

Dr. Axe says that this powerful plant can help to cleanse the lymphatic system, thus supporting the body's ability to eliminate toxins. Ginger is also known for its anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory properties, thanks to compounds like shogaol, paradol, and zingerone. This is noteworthy given that chronic inflammation has been shown to potentially increase your chances of getting sick.

Drinking tea with fresh ginger root is a great way to take advantage of these benefits—or you could whip up a shot of ginger juice, adding honey and lemon juice for added antibacterial and antiviral effects.

Here's The Single Best Way to Store Ginger.
4
Kale
Woman picking out kale and leeks at a farmers market or grocery store
Shutterstock

"Leafy greens are some of the world's most nutritious foods," says Dr. Axe. "They contain several types of flavonoid antioxidants, and they are rich in vitamins A and C."

Specifically, research has found that the nutrients in cruciferous vegetables such as arugula, kale, and mustard greens help to ensure that key immune cells in the gut and skin known as IELs (intra-epithelial lymphocytes) function properly.
5
Bell peppers
slicing bell pepper
Shutterstock

Did you know that bell peppers contain more vitamin C than oranges? A 1-cup serving contains 152 milligrams—or 169% of your daily recommended value for this vitamin. That's pretty impressive when you consider that 1 cup of oranges contains 96 milligrams.

Not only that, but Dr. Axe points out that yellow, orange, and red bell peppers are packed with beta-carotene, which helps to promote immune system health by fighting oxidative stress in the body.
6
Shellfish
cooking shrimp
Shutterstock

One reason why Dr. Favini recommends eating shellfish is for the wide array of minerals they contain, including iron, magnesium, potassium, and phosphorus. Specifically, zinc plays a super important part in your immune function, and whether you know it or not, oysters contain more zinc per serving than any other food. Selenium, meanwhile—which shellfish is chock-full of—can reduce inflammation and enhance immunity by lowering oxidative stress levels in the body

Shellfish also offer a variety of B vitamins, which help to both regulate inflammation and promote the development of red and white blood cells to keep oxygen flowing throughout your body while it fights off disease. while fighting against disease. Not only that, but the immune system relies on a well-functioning metabolism to work properly, and iodine fuels basically all metabolic activity—and shrimp, lobster, and scallops are all chock-full of this essential mineral.

Here are 43 Healthy Seafood Recipes That Are Surprisingly Easy to Make.
7
Pineapple
pineapple
Shutterstock

Dr. Axe says that pineapple is an excellent choice for helping your body to boost its defenses against illness because it has a high concentration of vitamin C. In fact, 1 cup of fresh pineapple chunks contains nearly 79 milligrams of vitamin C, according to The United States Department of Agriculture—which exceeds the RDA for adult women and nearly meets the RDA for adult men.

While this fruit contains a number of beneficial vitamins and minerals, it seems that the enzyme bromelain may be most advantageous for boosting immunity while reducing inflammation.

There's research to back this up, too: one 2019 study of 98 healthy children found that participants who ate canned pineapple over the course of nine weeks had a significantly lower risk of both viral and bacterial infections than those who didn't eat it. Moreover, the children who ate the most pineapple (280 grams daily) had close to four times more white blood cells, which protect the body from infection, than those who only ate 140 grams daily or none at all.
8
Carrots
tricolor roasted carrots
Shutterstock

Research has suggested that beta-carotene, an antioxidant that converts to vitamin A, may enhance immune cell function— and carrots are loaded with it. Beta-carotene is actually what gives this vegetable its distinct orange hue. Dr. Axe recommends drinking carrot juice to reap these disease-fighting rewards — while may lose out on some of the dietary fiber by sipping the juice as opposed to munching on the veggie whole, it may be worth it since you'll get more beta-carotene this way. Although 1 cup of cooked carrots contains 12,998 micrograms of beta-carotene (which is 120% of your RDA), 6 oz. of 100% carrot juice contains a whopping 16,740 micrograms.

Plus, carrot juice is also high in vitamin C and vitamin B6—which is crucial for optimal immune response. In fact, studies have found that there's a link between vitamin B6 deficiency and weakened immunity.

Get started with our 41+ Best Carrot Recipes.
9
Kefir
milk kefir
Shutterstock

"Fermented foods supply the body with beneficial probiotic bacteria that improve gut health, thereby strengthening the immune system," says Dr. Axe, adding that some of the best-fermented foods include kefir, kombucha, sauerkraut, and kimchi.

Kefir—a sour drink made by adding kefir grains to milk—offers a wide range of powerful acids, peptides, and compounds that may boost your body's defenses. And while yogurt is one of the better-known probiotic foods, kefir can actually be a superior source of these friendly health-promoting bacteria—containing up to 61 different strains.

In addition, the probiotic Lactobacillus kefiri—which is unique to kefir—has been shown to inhibit the growth of certain harmful bacteria. Kefir also has a specific type of carbohydrate, kefiran, that's known for its antibacterial properties.

You can either buy kefir at your local market or make it yourself at home by combining kefir grains with the milk of your choosing—either way, it's a fantastic addition to smoothies, overnight oats, protein shakes, and dressings and marinades.

Here are 6 Reasons to Start Drinking Kefir.
10
Salmon
wild salmon
Shutterstock

According to Dr. Favini, there's a growing body of preliminary research that suggests vitamin D may play a critical role in modulating the way the immune system responds to COVID-19. Salmon is a rich source of this vitamin, which is why he advises adding oily fish like salmon to your grocery list. Research has demonstrated that vitamin D deficiency is associated with increased susceptibility to infection (especially respiratory infections).

Keep in mind that whether the fish was farmed or caught wild can make a significant difference: one 2007 study found that farmed salmon only had approximately 25% of the vitamin D content as wild salmon had.

And in case you were still looking for reasons to up your intake of this nutrient, it's been hypothesized that vitamin D could be extremely important in preventing the "cytokine storm" and acute respiratory distress syndrome that's commonly the cause of death in COVID-19 patients.
11
Garlic
chopping garlic
Shutterstock

One reason why garlic is among Dr. Favini's top food choices for boosting your immune system is that it boasts antiseptic, antibacterial, and antifungal properties—which can help the body resist or destroy viruses. More specifically, this vegetable contains allicin, a potent compound that not only gives garlic its uniquely pungent odor and taste but is also believed to enhance immune resistance.

FYI, a 2007 study that analyzed the effects of lemon, ginger, garlic, and honey extracts on a specific bacteria (Streptococcus mutans) determined that garlic showed the greatest antimicrobial activity.

Now that you know what foods to eat, you should also check out These Foods That May Weaken COVID-19, New Study Says.
Rebecca Strong
Rebecca Strong is a Boston-based freelance health, wellness, and lifestyle writer who has contributed to INSIDER, HuffPost, Bustle, Elite Daily, POPSUGAR, StyleCaster, and AskMen. Read more
Filed Under
Coronavirus // Coronavirus Tips // Immune System
More content from Healthy Eating

    – One Major Effect of Eating Mangos, Says Dietitian
    – Surprising Side Effects Bananas Have On Your Immune System, Says Science
    – One Major Effect of Eating Clementines, Says Dietitian
    – Secret Tricks for Eating Your Way to a Better Immune System, Dietitian Says
    – 10 Foods to Eat to Never Get Sick, Say Doctors
    – Surprising Side Effects Apples Have On Your Immune System, Says Science
    – I Had COVID and This Is the Diet and Exercise Advice I Followed to Recover
    – COVID's Impact on Your Sense of Taste May Be Worse Than Thought, New Study Says

More in Healthy Eating

    cooked broccoli and spinach	
    The #1 Best Vegetable to Keep Your Brain from Aging
    Woman Eats Cereal	
    This Popular Breakfast Lowers Inflammation
    sliced mango	
    One Major Effect of Eating Mangos
    woman eating salad	
    The #1 Best Eating Habit to Protect Your Liver
    The #1 Worst Breakfast Habit for High Blood Sugar, Say Dietitians	
    Worst Breakfast Habit for High Blood Sugar

    About Us
    About ETNT Health
    Our Medical Expert Board
    Newsletters
    Partner Sites
    Privacy Policy
    Terms and Conditions
    Advertise
    FAQ
    Contact Us

Galvanized Logo

© 2020 Galvanized Media. All Rights Reserved. EatThis.com is part of the AllRecipes Food Group
Subscribe to our daily newsletter
Get the best food tips and diet advice every day.


     Skip to secondary menu
    Skip to main content
    Skip to primary sidebar

Kresent!

Health & Lifestyle

    Yoga Asanas
    Skincare Tips
    Haircare Tips
    All About Piercings
    Tattoo Ideas
    Essential Oils Guide
    Oversized Styles
    Plus Size Outfit Ideas
    Outfit Aesthetics

Top 7 Foods That Fight Infections To Add To Your Diet At Once

August 22, 2021 by Madhavi Leave a Comment
Foods That Fight Infection In The Body:

Jump To:

    Foods That Fight Infection In The Body:
        Signs Of Infection:
    Top 7 Foods That Fight Infections:
        Pineapple:
        Turmeric:
        Honey:
        Lemon:
        Ginger:
        Garlic, Onion, And Cabbage:
        Curd Or Plain Yogurt:
    Basic Precautions In Monsoon:
        Do’s and don’ts in monsoon to prevent infections
        Source of nutrients
    What are the best foods to fight infection?
    What is the fastest way to reduce inflammation in the body?
    What foods kill inflammation?
    What are the 10 foods that fight inflammation?
    What kills infection naturally?
    How can I help my body fight infection?
    What is the strongest natural anti-inflammatory?
    What are the 5 classic signs of inflammation?
    Do bananas cause inflammation?
    What can I drink for inflammation?
    Can drinking water reduce inflammation?
    What are the 3 foods to never eat?
    Is coffee anti-inflammatory?
    Are eggs inflammatory?
    Is Honey anti-inflammatory?

foods that fight infections

The environment is changing around and always in its best condition. But we may not cope in the best of conditions, putting us at risk of developing bacterial infections which we can contract through the air we breathe, the food we eat and the water we drink. It could be the flu, skin changes, viral infections, gut issues or even respiratory or urinary tract infections. To enjoy the environment, we should be able to cope with changes outside. Read on to know the top 7 foods that fight infections and other tips and precautions. If there is an ongoing flu symptom in effect check these foods to fight flu for immediate relief. Also, build your immune system beforehand with the foods that boost immune system.

Luckily, there are a number of home remedies or natural antibiotics in your kitchen to help you fight these infections. These remedies can also help improve your immunity.
Signs Of Infection:

The signs body is fighting an infection may include:

    fever.
    feeling tired or fatigued.
    swollen lymph nodes in the neck, armpits, or groin.
    headache.
    nausea or vomiting.

Top 7 Foods That Fight Infections:

So here’s a list of the top 7 foods that prevent infections:
Pineapple:
foods that fight infections

This is one magical fruit that plays a role in muscle recovery. It is especially important for skeletal muscle injuries or respiratory infections as it contains an enzyme called bromelain that serves the above functions.
Turmeric:
foods that fight infections

Due to an active component found in turmeric known as ‘curcumin,’ turmeric or Haldi has antiseptic, anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial and anti-allergic properties. So, the best way to recover from an infection is to add a pinch of Haldi to your bedtime milk.
Honey:
foods that fight infections

This is an age-old anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial remedial food. However, it is important that this honey is raw, organic and unfiltered as in this state, it contains all the enzymes that release hydrogen peroxide, which is important to kill germs/bacteria.
Lemon:
foods that fight infections

This mega source of vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant. The ascorbic acid that lemons are rich in help scavenge many microbes. So not only does it help aid in faster recovery from infections, but it also helps boost immunity to prevent any other bout of infections.
Ginger:
foods that fight infections

This is one of the most potent anti-microbial and anti-bacterial agents of all time, as it has the potential to suppress the growth of microbes. It has been shown to be particularly successful in respiratory and gut infections.
Garlic, Onion, And Cabbage:
half-of-cabbage-two-cloves-garlic-and-half-of-red-onion-isolated-on-a-white-background

All of these foods have one common component that is responsible for their anti-bacterial properties. And this active compound is known as allicin. Consuming one-two raw garlic cloves and adding onion and cabbage regularly to the diet has been known to prevent and improve infections.
Curd Or Plain Yogurt:
foods that fight infections

These fermented dairy items are extremely essential for gut health as well as immunity. Curd helps in the build-up of good bacteria in our system which further improves the ratio of health-promoting vs. disease-causing bacteria. Therefore, it keeps infections away.

Make sure to regularly include these foods in your daily routine to keep your immunity up and keep infections far away!
Basic Precautions In Monsoon:

Make sure that you follow these rules along with adding the top 7 foods that fight infections in your diet:

    Boil water before drinking or use ultraviolet/reverse osmosis filters
    Bathe regularly, wash your hands with soap and keep clean
    Remove all sources of stagnant water. Clean out desert coolers regularly
    Keep all the water reservoirs and tanks covered
    Use repellents to prevent mosquito bites. Cover up

Do’s and don’ts in monsoon to prevent infections

Drink plenty of vegetable soup

    Drink boiled and cooled water with a little honey
    Add ginger and green gram in the daily diet
    Eat light foods made of old barley, rice and wheat
    Wash vegetables with clean water and steam well to kill germs
    Keep surroundings dry and clean
    Dry your feet with a soft dry cloth whenever wet
    Don’t over-exert yourself physically
    Eat cooked foods and salads
    Don’t enter an air-conditioned room with wet hair and damp clothes
    Don’t allow water to stagnate

Source of nutrients

Some fruits and substances rich in these nutrients include:

    Amla: Amla is rich in vitamin C, tannins and pectins
    Ashwagandha: Helps control stress; regulates immunity
    Guduchi: For physical and mental strength; rejuvenates the immune system
    Kesar: Energises the body, promotes skin health
    Shatavari: Promotes health and helps build stamina

What are the best foods to fight infection?

Consuming foods high in vitamin C such as grapefruits, oranges, tangerines, sweet red pepper, broccoli, strawberries, kale, and kiwifruit are thought to increase white blood cell production, which is key to fighting infection.
What is the fastest way to reduce inflammation in the body?

Drink water — Drinking lots of water and staying properly hydrated is probably the easiest way to reduce inflammation. If your body is getting enough water, your joints will move more freely and easily — leading to less pain.
What foods kill inflammation?

The 13 Most Anti-Inflammatory Foods You Can Eat

    Berries. Berries are small fruits that are packed with fiber, vitamins, and minerals. 
    Fatty fish. Fatty fish are a great source of protein and the long-chain omega-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA. 
    Broccoli. 
    Avocados.
    Green tea.
    Peppers.
    Mushrooms. 
    Grapes.

What are the 10 foods that fight inflammation?

Top 10 foods that fight inflammation Berries, including blueberries, strawberries, raspberries and more. Salmon, tuna and other fatty fish (yes, sardines, too). Nuts, including walnuts and almonds. Olive oil, especially extra virgin olive oil. Peppers, including bell and chili peppers.
What kills infection naturally?

Seven best natural antibiotics

    Garlic. Cultures across the world have long recognized garlic for its preventive and curative powers.
    Honey. Since the time of Aristotle, honey has been used as an ointment that helps wounds to heal and prevents or draws out infection.
    Ginger.
    Echinacea.
    Goldenseal.
    Clove.
    Oregano.

How can I help my body fight infection?

Healthy ways to strengthen your immune system Don’t smoke. Eat a diet high in fruits and vegetables. Exercise regularly. Maintain a healthy weight. If you drink alcohol, drink only in moderation. Get adequate sleep. Take steps to avoid infection, such as washing your hands frequently and cooking meats thoroughly.
What is the strongest natural anti-inflammatory?

Omega-3 fatty acids Omega-3 fatty acids , which are abundant in fatty fish such as cod, are among the most potent anti-inflammatory supplements. These supplements may help fight several types of inflammation, including vascular inflammation.
What are the 5 classic signs of inflammation?

Based on visual observation, the ancients characterised inflammation by five cardinal signs, namely redness (rubor), swelling (tumour), heat (calor; only applicable to the body’ extremities), pain (dolor) and loss of function (functio laesa).
Do bananas cause inflammation?

Researchers found that not only did both types of bananas reduce inflammation, they also had an antioxidant effect, which helped keep immune cells functioning optimally.
What can I drink for inflammation?

Here are five research-backed drinks that can help fight inflammation in your body.

    Baking soda + water. A recent study in the Journal of Immunologyfound drinking a tonic of baking soda and water may help reduce inflammation.
    Parsley + ginger green juice.
    Lemon + turmeric tonic.
    Bone broth. 
    Functional food smoothie.

Can drinking water reduce inflammation?

Inflammation. Health experts recommend that a diet rich in anti-oxidants as well as staying hydrated with enough water are great ways to reduce inflammation in the body. Water is specifically recommended because it can flush toxins and other irritants out of the body.
What are the 3 foods to never eat?

AVOID: Refined Grains White flour. Bread. Pasta. Rice. Baked goods. Snack goods. Breakfast cereals.
Is coffee anti-inflammatory?

Coffee contains active compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that may help reduce low grade inflammation and protect against certain diseases.
Are eggs inflammatory?

Eggs and their consumption can affect different people in different ways. To put it simply, research does suggest that eggs can cause inflammation based on factors like weight and presence of disease. And these factors will change whether the response is a positive or negative one.
Is Honey anti-inflammatory?

In addition to its use as a natural sweetener, honey is used as an anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and antibacterial agent. People commonly use honey orally to treat coughs and topically to treat burns and promote wound healing.

Filed Under: Health
About Madhavi

I'm an enthusiast of art, creation and philosophy.
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

Primary Sidebar
Search this website
Recent Posts

    How To Beat Laziness – 5 Exercises To Overcome Laziness – How to overcome laziness to exercise
    Haircuts For Fat Faces To Slim Your Face Down – Best Haircut For Fat Face
    How To Improve Concentration – How To Increase Concentration (Yoga, Meditation, Foods & Tips)
    Banana Stem Benefits – Banana Stem Juice For Weight Loss
    Healthy Sleeping Positions And Some Good Tips To Sleep Better
    How To Style Workwear With Piercing For Men
    Carrot Juice Benefits – Carrot Juice For Eyes, Skin, Immunity And More
    Tips To Avoid Procrastination And Overcome Laziness – How to avoid procrastination and laziness?
    Here’s How To Make Perfect Jowar Roti – How to make jowar roti without breaking?
    Types of Septum Piercings – Types Of Septum Rings
    The Ultimate Guide To 90s Style Men – 90s Fashion Men

Copyright © 2022 · Lifestyle Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in


Step To Health
 

    Natural remedies

Fruits that Help Treat Urinary Tract Infections
3 minutes
Fruits are rich in vitamin C, which can help the body eliminate bacteria in the bladder. By increasing your consumption of citrus foods you also improve intestinal health.
Fruits that Help Treat Urinary Tract Infections

Do you get a lot of urinary tract infections? Aside from taking medication your doctor prescribes, a balanced diet can also help prevent frequent UTIs. Including plenty of fruit is an easy and delicious way to protect your urinary tract. Want to know which fruits are the best?
Benefits of fruit for urinary tract infections

Urinary tract infections are a common nuisance for women. UTIs cause inflammation of the bladder, a burning sensation when urinating, pressure in the abdominal area, and sometimes even a low-grade fever.

Doctors usually prescribe a course of antibiotics for these infections, but there are other things that can help for a quick recovery. Here are some guidelines on what fruits you should eat to help fight the infection and feel better more quickly.

The high content of vitamin C content and other compounds that fight bacteria found in the bladder make fruit a powerful weapon against UTIs. Before we talk about the most effective kinds of fruits to include in your diet, here are some tips that will enhance the effectiveness of your antibiotics to get rid of your infection. 

    Drink plenty of fluids. This will help clean out the bladder and the urinary tract.
    Teas made with chamomile, cinnamon, and rosemary are also great because they reduce inflammation.
    Eat foods with antibiotic properties. Some examples are garlic, ginger, parsley… You can make a ginger tea, or drink a parsley infusion. Just boil 5 sprigs of parsley in a cup of water, then filter the liquid and drink it warm or hot.
    Diuretic foods prevent fluid retention and promote urination. The best ones are asparagus, cucumbers, celery, and beets.
    Avoid foods that can irritate the bladder like coffee and green tea.
    Avoid foods made with refined flours, yeast, and sugars – these just increase the fluid retention and won’t help fight the infection.
    Drink a tablespoon of baking soda dissolved in a glass of water every day. This will help get rid of your urinary tract infection.

Fruits that help cure your urinary tract infection
1. Cranberries
cranberry tea for urinary tract infections
cranberries

Cranberries work because they increase the acidity of the urine. That, in turn, helps eliminate bacteria by killing it or preventing it from attaching to the walls of the urinary tract.

Here’s a tip: don’t buy the pre-packaged cranberry juices in supermarkets. They don’t contain any of the active ingredients that promote healing and they also have a high sugar content. It’s much better to buy fresh cranberries and make the juice at home.

    You might like: 10 Best Fruits for Fighting Against Water Retention

2. Papayas
papaya juice
Papaya is another fruit with high acidity that helps remove bacteria and care for the urinary tract.

Papaya is also good for you because it contains enzymes that reduce inflammation and promote healing. Don’t miss out on this nutritious and delicious way to prevent urinary tract infections, eat some papaya today!
3. Orange and lemon juice

    Read more: The Orange Diet for Weight Loss and Health

citrus fruits
As you know, few fruits are as rich in vitamin C and antioxidants as oranges and lemons
4. Pineapple
pineapple
Pineapple contains enzymes that speed up your recovery time by reducing inflammation in the bladder.
5. Red grapes
grapes
Grapes are another fruit that protects the urinary tract, second only to cranberries.

Not only are they rich in antioxidants and vitamins, but they also reduce inflammation, are highly diuretic, and help you recover quickly.

Enjoy!

Last update: 10 October, 2018
8 Great Plants to Put Around a Pool
8 Great Plants to Put Around a Pool
Lotus Root: Nutritional Composition, Benefits and Preparation
Lotus Root: Nutritional Composition, Benefits and Preparation
Marbled Bundt Cake Recipe
Marbled Bundt Cake Recipe
How to Choose a Good Roommate
How to Choose a Good Roommate
Interesting Articles
6 Natural Drinks to Treat Urinary Tract Infections
Natural remedies6 Natural Drinks to Treat Urinary Tract Infections
7 Tricks to Avoid Gaining Weight When You Reach Menopause
Taking care of your body7 Tricks to Avoid Gaining Weight When You Reach Menopause
Simple Habits You Can Change to Improve Your Health
Taking care of your bodySimple Habits You Can Change to Improve Your Health
The Health Benefits of Water with a Tablespoon of Apple Cider Vinegar
Taking care of your bodyThe Health Benefits of Water with a Tablespoon of Apple Cider Vinegar
What is Jiaogulan and What Are Its Benefits?
Medicinal plantsWhat is Jiaogulan and What Are Its Benefits?
11 Remedies to Speed Up The Relief of a Sore Throat
Natural remedies11 Remedies to Speed Up The Relief of a Sore Throat
The Health Benefits of Cinnamon Tea
Natural remediesThe Health Benefits of Cinnamon Tea
8 Benefits of Water that You Probably Didn't Know
Taking care of your body8 Benefits of Water that You Probably Didn't Know
Step To Health
Step To Health is also available in:

    Français
    Suomi
    Dansk
    Deutsch
    Română
    Nederlands
    Polski
    العربية
    Ελληνικά
    Español
    Português
    日本語
    Українська
    Türkçe
    Svenska
    한국어
    Русский
    繁體中文
    हिन्दी
    Norsk bokmål
    Italiano
    Български

Follow us

Other Sites

    logo icon mcs
    logo icon mcs
    logo icon mcs
    logo icon mcs
    logo icon mcs

MContigo

Step To Health This website publishes free articles on natural remedies, physical and mental health, and how to take care of your body.
© 2012 – 2022 . All rights reserved.

The content in this publication is presented for informative purposes only. In no way is this information intended to replace a physician's diagnosis or act as a substitute for the work of a qualified professional. We recommend that you consult a reliable specialist.

    Who we arePrivacy policyTerms and conditions of useCookies law



Sign in

Sign in
Welcome!Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password?
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
Thursday, April 28, 2022

    Sign in / Join

Parenting Healthy Babies

    Pre-planning & Pregnancy
    Baby
    Toddler
    Teenager
    For You
    Health Benefits
    FAQS

Home For You 14 Must Know Foods that Fight Virus in Our Body

    For You

14 Must Know Foods that Fight Virus in Our Body
April 3, 2018
0
2523
Share

Viruses cannot be killed. However, there are certain foods which weaken them. Many foods have proper anti-viral potential. They will offer your child the nutrition and the strength to fight off the deadly viruses. Starting from cinnamon, curd, and dill to garlic, ginger, and turmeric, there are various foods which are going to help your child combat the virus attack. (Bakhru, 2000).

Apart from that your child must eat foods which are rich in folic acid, plenty of liquids, and onion. Fruits rich in tannin like lemon and oranges are also good for suppressing virus attacks. Holy basil has plenty of medicinal value and it helps to increase the immunity of your child. Research shows that even long pepper has the ability to cure your child from common viral fever.
14 Foods That Fight Virus in Our Body

foods that fight virus

Cinnamon

This very popular condiment has tremendous anti-viral properties. Obtained from the bark of the cinnamon tree this spice has great medicinal values. Cinnamon is very effective in treating virus-related diseases in children. Cinnamon boiled in water can actually treat common cold and flu. Moreover, cinnamons are well known for their effect on oral health of children. If your child is suffering from toothache or gum related problems then feeding him/her with cinnamon will solve the problems.

Read more: 15 Common Toddler Teeth Problems and Remedies

Garlic:

Belonging to the onion family, garlic is one of the world’s strongest anti-viral foods. Research shows that garlic has the potential to either kill or cripple as much as 72 different bacteria and viruses. (Bakhru, 2000). According to a research conducted by Akbar Clinic and Research Center in Panama City, Florida, garlic possess the broadest spectrum of anti-bacterial substances. That makes it an ideal choice to be added in your child’s diet. Raw garlic is also equally useful. The acid present in garlic tends to weaken the viruses in your child’s body.

Foods Rich in Folic Acid:

Leafy greens and vegetables rich in vitamin B are perfect sources of folic acid. Having folic acid actually boosts your child’s red blood cells to fight off viruses. Folic acid rich foods like spinach and cabbages are excellent muscle builder and will definitely boost your child’s overall immune system. (Joseph & Underwood, 2002)

These vegetables help your child to grow strong internally thereby equipping them with the capacity of combating germs and bacteria. Your child will fall less ill.

Ginger:

Like many other root vegetables, ginger is rich in natural nutrients and is good for your child’s immunity. Over centuries, ginger is being used in order to treat fatal diseases like cholera, diarrhea, and any form of congestion in the chest. Ginger juice added with a hint of lime and honey is known to cure common cold and any sort of stomach infection. Whilst on one hand, both ginger and garlic have proper healing properties but at the same time these root vegetables are very strong in taste and odor. That is why it is advisable that you gradually introduce the food to your child so that he/she gets used to its taste.

Grapefruit:

The juice of grapefruit has tremendous anti-viral properties. It contains a substance called maringin and it boosts up the metabolic function of your child. A strong metabolism often ensures better immunity and resistance. Your child will be more equipped to fight with common viral infection. Over and above they are also good source of vitamin B. These vitamins help in fighting off the free radicals and help your child to have an infection free life.

Lemon:

This very important food in the citrus family is rich in Vitamin C and useful minerals. It has tremendous anti-viral properties and can cure many diseases for your child. Especially if your child is suffering from sore throat or major throat infection then lemon juice can come to good effect. It has wonderful anti-viral properties and it can be regarded as the most effective food in equipping your child with enough strength to fight off the free radicals. Apart from that lemon can boost your child’s overall immunity.

Onion:

Onion is a very strong anti-septic and antibiotic food. According to Bakhru (2000), onion was used for treating Russian soldiers during World War II. Onion has tremendous anti-viral properties and can actually heal various disorders in children. (Corzo-Martinez & Villamiel, 2007). Especially if your child is suffering from any sort of tooth problem or stomach infection or even suffering from common cold, onion paste and raw onion can be very helpful. You can make a home-made onion sauce and add it to your child’s diet.

Turmeric:

A key ingredient to any curry, turmeric offers many benefits to your child. Improving immunity is certainly one of them. Turmeric has great healing qualities and is good for his/her immunity. It repairs damaged tissues and helps your child to recover from flu and cold.

Curd:

Curd or yogurt is rich in bacteria which are good for your child’s stomach. Consumption of curd will make sure that the good bacteria are strong enough to fight off the viruses in your child’s body.

Research conducted at the University of Minnesota reveal that the presence of curd either kills the e-coli bacteria or hinders its growth and development. So, either way it is good for your child. Especially if is summer or monsoon, curds can be very beneficial for your little one.

Dill:

 Dill is a leafy green with various health benefits. The herb is well known for its anti-viral properties. Dill is known to cure stomach flu and also viral infections like influenza in children.

Dill has no known side effects and that is why this leafy vegetable can be safely offered to your child.

Holy Basil:

The medicinal value of holy basil is well known throughout India. (Bakhru, 2000). During the monsoons your child might be victim of various viral diseases. Starting from common cold to influenza many diseases can spoil the summer holidays.

Chutney made from the tender leaves of basil helps in the cure of deadly viral infections like dengue and influenza. It is safe to be used. Add a hint of honey and give it to your child.

Plenty of Liquid:

Coconut water, fresh fruit juices, and water are perfect cure for viral infection. Viruses normally dry up the mucus lining of the respiratory tract and especially the lungs. This is the reason why it becomes difficult for your child to breathe.

Drinking plenty of fluid will ensure that the respiratory tract remains hydrated and your child can battle the viruses with ease. (Bren & Consum, 2002).

Long Pepper:

 Long pepper has good anti-viral properties. It has the ability to treat diseases like influenza. Half a spoon of long pepper added with honey can cure common cold and viral infection among children.

Orange:

Orange is good for your child’s immunity. Regular feeding of orange can actually improve the overall immunity of your little one. He/she will tend to fall sick less often than before.

The anti-inflammatory property of oranges will help your child to fight-off the free radicals and viruses that causes children to fall ill often. Oranges are also beneficial for curing cough and cold and clearing of phlegm.

Conclusion:

The food listed above in the list is all healthy and safe. They will help your child develop strong immunity and ability to defend against viruses. However, some foods mentioned like garlic or ginger might be a bit too strong for your child. That is why you should be careful whilst introducing it.

Hope this article was of help for all our parents!! Please share your comments/queries/tips with us and help us create a world full of Happy and Healthy Babies!!

References:

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0924224407002282

Bakhru, H.K. (2000). “Healing Through Natural Foods”.

http://129.98.182.8/uploadedFiles/EJBM/19Schnall189.pdf
RELATED POSTS
Share
Previous article
19 Foods that Help you Lower Blood Pressure During Pregnancy
Next article
Infectious Mononucleosis in Children: Ultimate Guide
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
pain during sex
For You
13 Common Causes for Pain During Sex for Women
male yeast infection symptoms
For You
Can Men Get Yeast Infections? Is It Contagious?
nulliparous women
For You
Nulliparous Women and Health Risks
MOST POPULAR
Infant Hair Growth TIps
11 Things To Do For Baby Hair Growth
June 13, 2015
oil baby hair growth
Top 11 Oils for Baby Hair Growth
January 30, 2017
Pregnancy foods
10 Pregnancy Foods to get a Fair Baby
June 27, 2017
Easter Crafts for Kids
51 Easter Crafts for Kids
March 9, 2015
Lemon Balm
11 Awesome Herbal Teas for Children
August 28, 2015
JOKES & RIDDLES
Teenager
75 Tricky Riddles for Teens
riddles
Activities for Kids
101 Funny Riddles for Kids With Answers
Subscribe
First name or full name
Email
 By continuing, you accept the privacy policy
ABOUT US
We, at ParentingHealthyBabies.com, hold your hands as you progress from the preconception stage to pregnancy, child birth,early child rearing and parenting. Happy Parenting!
Contact us: info@cognatemedia.com
FOLLOW US
© © 2019 Parenting Healthy Babies Information on this website is for education purpose only. Consult a medical practitioner for health problems.
vitamins to reduce inflammation
effects of lack of sleep in children



English
GardenTech

    Products
    Blog
    Identify Insects
    Identify Diseases
    FAQs
    Talk To Us
    Search

    GardenTech Blog Pest ID & Prevention Prevent and Control Fungal Disease in Fruit and Vegetable Gardens 

Prevent and Control Fungal Disease in Fruit and Vegetable Gardens
By Jolene Hansen
Variety of garden vegetables

Whether you're new to gardening or consider yourself a seasoned pro, the joy of nurturing homegrown edibles and sharing their garden-to-table goodness with friends and family never grows old. But despite your best intentions, diseases often step in—floating on gentle winds or splashing water—and spoil your precious harvest.

At every experience level, it pays to take time to learn about common diseases and ways to prevent and control them. The good news is that fungal or fungal-like pathogens cause about 85 percent of all plant diseases.1 With the help of good garden practices and a trusted, proven fungicide you can prevent and control common garden fungal diseases effectively.
watering can watering garden
Good gardening habits and effective treatment help prevent, stop and control fungal disease

Fungal diseases strike plants when conditions such as moisture and temperature encourage their development and spread. Those conditions vary according to the disease, but these simple cultural practices can help you limit their effect:

    Start by planting healthy stock. Whether you're planting seed straight into your garden or using nursery-grown transplants, start with disease-free, disease-resistant seeds or plants from reputable growers.
    Choose planting sites based on plant needs. Trying to force sun-loving veggies into shady spots only leads to added stress on your edibles and yourself. Proper planting sites go a long way toward preventing disease and disappointment.
    Avoid overhead watering. Many fungal diseases can't germinate and spread unless leaves and other plant parts stay wet for long periods. You can't control rain, but you can control irrigation. Drip irrigation and careful hand watering keep leaves dry.
    Water early in the day. If leaves do get wet, it's important they dry as soon as possible. Early watering means that sun, wind, and daytime temperatures help your edibles dry faster than they would near evening.
    Don't crowd plants. Poor air circulation around your edibles traps humidity and keeps leaves wet longer. Read seed packages or plant tags for proper spacing, and follow their advice at planting time.
    Don't work a wet garden. Some fungal diseases spread from plant to plant on wet boots and clothing, moist pruners, and even damp hands. Wait until your garden is dry before you dive in, and keep tools clean and sterile with a quick wipe of household disinfectant.
    Treat with a trusted, proven fungicide. Preventive and ongoing treatments with highly effective products such as Daconil® fungicides from GardenTech®brand help keep both your garden free of fungal diseases and harvests ready for your table.

Treatment with effective fungicides control disease and keep garden-to-table harvests healthy

Proven, effective fungicides help prevent fungal disease from becoming active, stop and control existing disease, and protect healthy edibles against fungal infections. Daconil® fungicides protect against more than 65 diseases, giving your edibles the broad-spectrum protection they need. Just follow the label instructions for your fruits and veggies, and protect your favorite edibles as follows:
Alliums
full leeks in garden

Onions, leeks, garlic, and shallots fall in a plant group known as the Allium family—a group of veggies many home cooks can't imagine life without. Diseases that target these four favorites include Botrytis leaf blight (blast), downy mildew, and purple blotch. With the edible bulbs of these plants hidden in soil, leaves show symptoms first.

Start treatment with Daconil® fungicide at the first sign of disease, and re-treat at intervals of at least seven days. For green onions, leeks, and shallots, allow at least 14 days between your final treatment and harvest. For dry bulb onions and garlic, allow seven days between harvest and treatment.
Beans
green beans in garden

Depending on where you grew up, you may call these garden staples snap beans, string beans, or green beans. Whether planted in garden rows or grown in containers, they're delicious by any name. Rust and Botrytis blight, sometimes called gray mold, often threaten bean crops.

Begin preventive applications with Daconil® fungicide during the early, pre-bean, bloom stage or treat as soon as signs of disease appear. Repeat at weekly intervals, always allowing at least seven days between treatments. Allow seven days between treatment and harvest as well.
Carrots
Bundle of carrots

With their edible roots growing underground, carrot tops take the hit from fungal diseases. With unhealthy leaves, carrots can't develop as well as they should. Carrots suffer from two main blight diseases: early or Cercospora blight, and late or Alternaria blight.

Treat at the earliest signs of disease in your carrot patch and repeat as needed to maintain control. Allow at least seven days between applications, but Daconil® fungicide can treat carrots right up to harvest day.
Celery
Celery in garden

Some gardeners grow celery in trenches where mounded soil protects the stalks, but others grow celery with both stalks and leaves exposed. Either way, fungal diseases such as  early or Cercospora blight, late or Septoria blight, basal stalk rot, and pink rot affect these crops.

Start preventive treatments with Daconil® fungicide as soon as celery transplants go into your garden. Re-treat regularly, always allowing seven days in between. As harvest approaches, be sure to allow at least seven days between your final application and harvest time.
Cole Crops
Garden cabbage

"Cole" crops take their name from the Latin word meaning stalk or stem, which describes how these closely related members of the Brassica family grow. Diseases such as Alternaria leaf spot and downy mildew afflict cole crops such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower.

Start preventive treatment with Daconil® fungicides as soon as transplants go into the garden or as soon as weather conditions favor disease. Allow at least seven days between treatments, but you can treat these cole crops right up to harvest day.
Corn (Sweet)
close up of corn

Thoughts of summer's first taste of garden-fresh corn-on-the-cob keep some gardeners going all winter. But fungal diseases such as Helminthosporium leaf blight and rust can make summery, fresh-corn meals a distant fantasy.

Treat sweet corn grown for straight-to-the-table use as soon as conditions such as extended wetness and cool temperatures arise and favor disease. Repeat as needed, allowing minimum retreatment intervals of at least seven days. Allow 14 days between Daconil treatment and harvest. Do not apply to sweet corn grown for processing.
Cucurbits
flowering squash in garden

Members of the Cucurbit family make the list of easy-to-grow favorites that gardeners turn to year after year. Cucumbers, melons, pumpkins, and summer and winter squash promise prolific harvests—when protected from diseases such as anthracnose, Cercospora leaf spot, downy mildew, gummy stem blight (black rot), leaf blight, powdery mildew, scab, and target spot. Rhizoctonia fruit rot, also known as belly rot, hits cucumbers as well.

Start preventive treatments as soon as these cucurbits reach their first true leaf stage or as soon as conditions are favorable for disease. Continue Daconil® fungicide treatments right up to harvest day, but always allow at least seven days between treatments.
Potatoes
fresh potatoes from garden

Though you might not guess it from their appearance, potatoes are closely related to tomatoes and have some of the same fungal diseases, including early blight and late blight. Botrytis vine rot affects potatoes as well. Even though spuds develop below ground, diseases that harm their foliage affect the edible tubers as well.

Begin treating potato plants as soon as they reach six inches tall or at the first sign of disease. Continue as needed to maintain disease control, allowing at least five days between retreatments. Daconil® fungicide treats potato plants right up to harvest digging day.
Stone Fruits
bowl of various fruits

Apricots, cherries, nectarines, peaches, plums, and prunes are known for their sweet, succulent flesh—and hard, stonelike pits. Fungal diseases such as brown rot blossom blight, Coryneum blight (shothole), peach leaf curl, scab, and cherry leaf spot attack their stone-fruit targets beginning early in spring.

Treatment varies according to the fruit and the disease involved. Timing is crucial, so follow label instructions carefully. For example, early season treatment with Daconil® fungicide may occur at the popcorn stage—when flower buds first show color—and at full bloom, but never between fruit formation and harvest. Post-harvest treatment also depends on the fruit and the disease.
Tomatoes
Red tomatoes on vine

From beefy red slicers to heirloom paste-types, tomatoes are a must for nearly every fruit and veggie gardener, whether adding spots of color to edible landscapes or crowning a garden patch. Unfortunately, numerous diseases such as anthracnose, Alternaria fruit rot (black mold), Botrytis, gray mold, early blight, gray leaf spot, gray leaf mold, late blight, Rhizoctonia fruit rot, and Septoria leaf spot attack these earthy essentials.

Fortunately, Daconil® fungicide treats all these tomato diseases. Begin preventive treatments early in the season or as soon as conditions favor disease development. Then re-treat at intervals of at least seven days. With Daconil® fungicide, you can treat tomatoes right up to the day you pick and eat them off the vine.

Even though fungal diseases are a fact of garden life, you can protect your favorite edibles and keep these crop stealers at bay. Put good garden practices to work and count on Daconil® fungicides, just as gardeners have done for more than 50 years. Then get ready for a healthy garden's bounty and good times at your table with friends and family.

Always read product labels thoroughly and follow instructions, including guidelines for treatable plants, application rates and frequencies, and pre-harvest intervals (PHI) for edible crops.

Daconil is a registered trademark of GB Biosciences Corp.

GardenTech is a registered trademark of Gulfstream Home and Garden, Inc.

Source:

1. J. Isleib, "Signs and Symptoms of Plant Disease: Is It Fungal, Viral or Bacterial?" Michigan State University Extension, December 2012.
CATEGORIES

    Pest ID & Prevention (26)
    Gardening & Healthy Living (21)
    How to Guides (14)
    Garden & Lawn Protection (9)

MOST POPULAR

    Fight Off Invading Fire Ants in Two Simple Steps 
    Stop Ants Before They Invade Your Home
    Easy Steps to Grow Your Own Tomatoes
    A Taste of Summer: Growing Cucumbers
    Japanese Beetle Protection for Your Trees and Shrubs

Get Monthly Gardening Advice!
JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST
First Name
Last Name
Email*

Which of the following topics would you like to learn more about?

    Lawn Care

    Flower/Vegetable Gardening

    Pest/Insect Management

Postal Code*
Country*
OTHER POSTS YOU MIGHT LIKE
Get the Upper Hand on Japanese Beetles
Keep Your Garden Free From Fungal Disease
Plant Pest Detective: Identifying Common Plant Pests
How to End Hornworm Havoc
PinterestFacebookYouTube
Terms of Use  |  Privacy Policy  |  ©2018 GARDENTECH, INC. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.



Europe 03:21, 26-Mar-2021
Eight fruits, vegetables and herbs that might help tackle COVID-19
Giulia Carbonaro

Share

Since the beginning of the pandemic, health organizations and experts have been struggling to contain the spread of fake news and myths surrounding alleged "miracle cures" for COVID-19, suggesting, for example, that consuming garlic or lemon could prevent the risk of infection. 

While these myths were busted, scientists across the world have actually turned to fruits, herbs, and vegetables with renowned therapeutic qualities to examine whether they could be helpful in the fight against COVID-19. 

Because, although no food has proved to be able to cure or prevent COVID-19, a healthy immune system and proper nutrition are fundamental in keeping us well in these challenging times and could be a precious defense, alongside social distancing, hand washing and vaccines, against the virus.

Plants have been used for centuries in almost all cultures across the world as natural remedies to treat chronic infections, including viral diseases. More than 2,500 years ago, the father of western medicine, Hippocrates, said: "Let food be thy medicine and let medicine be thy food."

The introduction of important medicinal food plants in the general public's daily diet could be an easily achievable game-changer in the fight against viruses and diseases, strengthening and improving people's immune system and overall health.

 

READ MORE

Adventurer's lockdown survival tips

Suez canal blockage risks PPE delivery

How to share vaccines more fairly?

 

Below, you can find a summary of the compounds from fruit, vegetables and herbs that have proved more promising in tackling SARS-CoV-2.

Although none of these natural remedies can replace medicines, these substances have the potential to engage with the virus in a way that could be a relief for patients and lighten the burden for health care system struggling with high numbers of infections.

 

Pomegranate

A study conducted by researchers at the University of Banja Luka in Bosnia and Herzegovina found pomegranate polyphenols extracted from peels of pomegranate fruit can play a role in inhibiting coronavirus infection.

Those extracts have previously shown to have beneficial effects for other diseases such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, atherosclerosis, inflammatory diseases and even some types of cancer. Most importantly, they have shown significant antiviral activities against some viruses other than SARS-CoV-2, preventing influenza virus entry and RNA transcription.

Based on these premises, the scientists at the University of Banja Luka are currently researching whether pomegranate could be an aid to treating and preventing COVID-19.

"It's a long way to say it's a drug, or it could stop SARS-CoV-2 infection," said research leader Relja Surucic, who warned it would be an exaggeration to call pomegranate a cure for COVID-19. However, he thinks it has the potential to be used as a complementary treatment or a supplement to treat the infection.

 
02:20

 

Ginger

"Enjoy ginger, but it's not a 'cure' for COVID-19", the World Health Organization (WHO) let the public know during the first wave of COVID-19 back in 2020. 

As the theory that ginger could help cure COVID-19 started circulating online among other such 'social media remedies', the WHO informed that while natural remedies such as ginger can have a "positive impact on your health," they are by no means a medically proven treatment for fighting COVID-19. 

But the idea that ginger can boost energy levels and the immune system and relieve the symptoms of other diseases, such as a cold, is rooted in its actual medicinal properties. Ginger is a natural anti-inflammatory and antioxidant, used for centuries not only as a spice, but also as a herbal medicine to relieve pain, nausea and vomiting.

A systematic review analyzing all clinical studies on the efficacy of ginger in treating different conditions (including nausea, gastrointestinal function, pain, inflammation and metabolic syndromes) found that in the majority of cases, ginger showed to be effective in alleviating symptoms of each condition. 

But the quality of the trials was admittedly inconsistent, and more research is needed to understand the real beneficial properties of this 'wonder root' and whether it could prevent or efficiently treat COVID-19.

 

The WHO said ginger is not a medically proved treatment for fighting COVID-19. /VCG

 

Dandelion

Dandelion, a plant that can grow naturally in meadows or open fields amid weed and grass, is one of the many plants scientists are testing for potential use against COVID-19. 

A study conducted by scientists in Freiburg, Germany, found evidence that the common dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) is able to block interaction between the spike S1 protein and the human ACE2 cell surface receptor in vitro (the protein on the surface of many cells the virus attach itself to).

Another study looking at data coming from Sweden and the UK, both consumers of dandelion as food, concluded that the plant has proven useful for medical use against COVID-19.

Although we still know very little about dandelion effects on health, dandelion root has recently also been studied for potential use against cancer, with promising results in prostate and breast cancers.

 

Some of the potential candidates scientists are analyzing for a COVID-19 therapeutic regimen. /CGTN Europe

 

Curcumin

Curcumin, a natural compound found in the spice turmeric, is another promising herb scientists are looking at. A study published in the Journal of General Virology found that curcumin can prevent infection from Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV), a coronavirus that infects pigs. 

Curcumin has also been shown to inhibit the replication of viruses including dengue virus, hepatitis B and Zika virus.

In the context of COVID-19, several studies have shown that curcumin can hinder cellular entry and replication of SARS-CoV-2, but once again more evidence is needed.

 

Licorice

Licorice root extract is a well-known anti-inflammatory natural medicine.

A team of scientists in Germany conducted a study analyzing the impact of licorice root extract in neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 in vitro.

What they found is that glycyrrhizic acid, a substance which is found in high concentrations in licorice roots, acted as an active antiviral ingredient and it exhibited antiviral activity against many viruses, including herpes simplex viruses, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and human and animal coronaviruses.

Another study conducted in Egypt and reviewing clinical trials on the beneficial effects of licorice root around the world came to the same conclusion as the German research, showing that glycyrrhizin and licorice extract have the capacity to disrupt the virus' entry into the host cells.

The German study has not been peer-reviewed yet, so it cannot be considered conclusive. But the scientists are positive that glycyrrhizic "potently neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 by inhibiting the viral main protease" and they suggest more studies should follow to further investigate this potential antiviral compound as a treatment for COVID-19.

 

Thyme, ivy, primrose and more

Another study conducted by the same team at the University of Freiburg in Germany who looked at dandelions, analyzed how five herbal medicinal products interacted with the virus and could potentially help treat the symptoms of COVID-19. 

The herbal extracts studied were bronchipret thyme-ivy (an extract of thyme herb and ivy leaves), bronchipret thyme-34 primrose (an extract of thyme herb and primrose root), imupret (an extract including, among others, chamomile flowers, dandelion herb and oak bark), sinupret extract (containing verbena herb, sorrel herb, primrose and elder flowers and gentian root) and tonsipret (normally used in tonsillitis tablets). 

Results derived by in vitro screenings showed that the extracts could activate defense mechanisms in the cells exposed to the virus.

In the case of the extracts including thyme and ivy, thyme and primrose and imupret, these had the ability to interfere with various steps of the viral replication cycle by inhibiting the binding of the SARS-CoV-2 spike S1 protein and the human ACE2 receptor, identified as the key cellular receptor facilitating uptake of the SARS-CoV-2 virus into the host cell.

The catch? The concentration of these extracts which is able to inhibit interaction between the virus and the host cell is highly toxic to humans. 

But not all research was in vain: both imupret and the combination of thyme and primrose root extract showed to be able to trigger an immune defense response at a lower concentration that is safe for people. It might be a matter of fine-tuning the concentration of the herbs in the extracts.

Despite positive evidence, more research is needed to confirm the beneficial effect of these herbal medicines against COVID-19 – and whether they could be useful for patients at all is still to be tested.
RELATED STORIES
Shanghai imposes tough measures to tackle fresh COVID-19 outbreak

China

12:29, 14-Mar-2022
See how cloud seeding might help fight drought in the U.S.

North America

19:58, 16-Mar-2022
Tibet donates materials to help Shanghai, Jilin battle COVID-19

China

04:39, 11-Apr-2022
MORE FROM CGTN
First anniversary of Liverpool-Shanghai freight link celebrated

Europe

16:50, 30-Apr-2022
Alzheimer's and Dementia Special: RAZOR full episode

RAZOR

14:36, 30-Apr-2022
The no-touch technology that's transforming healthcare

RAZOR

12:45, 30-Apr-2022
Spanish government hopes energy price cap will ease population's anger

Europe

12:35, 30-Apr-2022
TOP NEWS
Xi Jinping stresses further regulations on capital expansions

China

08:38, 30-Apr-2022
Shanghai says over 80% of firms on the 'white list' have resumed work

China

05:48, 30-Apr-2022
China's manufacturing PMI edges down to 47.4 in April

Economy

01:43, 30-Apr-2022
SITEMAP

    China
    World
    Politics
    Business
    Opinions
    Tech & Sci
    Culture
    Sports
    EUROPE

    Travel
    Nature
    Picture
    Video
    Specials
    Live
    Transcript
    Learn Chinese

EXPLORE MORE

    English
    Español
    Français
    العربية
    Русский
    Documentary
    CCTV+

OUR APPS

Copyright © 2020 CGTN. Beijing ICP prepared NO.16065310-3

    Terms of use Copyright Privacy policy About us 


Skip to main content
Logo for WebMD

    Coronavirus Update Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Find A Dentist Connect to Care Find Lowest Drug Prices 

    Health
    A-Z
        woman experiencing chest discomfort
        photo of migraine
    Drugs &
    Supplements
        assorted vitamins
        photo of vaccine
    Living
    Healthy
        grocery cart
        walking sneakers
    Family &
    Pregnancy
        apple slices and peanut butter
        photo of dogs kissing
    News &
    Experts
        photo of alzheimer's concept
        photo of person typing

    Sign InSubscribe

10 Amazing Disease-Fighting Foods
Subscribe
Menu

    Food & Recipes Feature Stories 

10 Amazing Disease Fighting Foods

Do your body a healthy world of good with these powerhouse disease fighting foods.
By Kathleen M. Zelman, MPH, RD, LD
From the WebMD Archives

They are a dietitian's dream foods, the cream of the crop, nutritious and delicious. They are disease fighting foods that should be in everyone's kitchen because they contain such a wealth of disease fighting substances.

So put these 10 readily available disease fighting foods on your grocery list today -- but do keep in mind that it takes more than 10 foods (even 10 terrific foods!) to make a healthy diet. Experts are quick to point out that variety is the spice of life. And ideally, these nutritious nibbles should replace other, less healthful, foods, helping you to cut calories while boosting the nutrition in your diet.

"Super-foods are terrific, but what are more important to wellness are healthy dietary patterns that include a wide variety of nutritious foods that displace less nutritious foods," notes Alice Lichtenstein, DSc, professor of nutrition science and policy at Tufts University.
Disease Fighting Food 1: Berries

Reach for berries for a powerful dose of disease fighting antioxidants. According to a U.S. Department of Agriculture study, blueberries top the list of antioxidant-rich fruits, followed by cranberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries. The color of berries comes from the pigment anthocyanin, an antioxidant that helps neutralize "free radicals" (cell-damaging molecules) that can help lead to chronic diseases, including cancer and heart disease. Berries, particularly cranberries, may also help ward off urinary tract infections.

Enjoy a cup of berries each day, as a snack; atop your cereal or yogurt; in muffins, salads, or smoothies; or as frozen treats.
Disease Fighting Food 2: Dairy

Dairy foods are not only the best food source of dietary calcium, but also have plenty of protein, vitamins (including vitamin D), and minerals -- key to fighting the disease osteoporosis. The U.S. government's 2005 Dietary Guidelines recommend having three daily servings of low-fat dairy products, as well as doing weight-bearing exercise, to help keep bones strong. (If you can't tolerate dairy, other calcium-containing foods include legumes; dark green leafy vegetables such as kale, broccoli, and collards; and calcium-fortified soy products, juices, and grains.)

Beyond strong bones, dairy may also help you lose weight. Research is ongoing, but a few studies have shown that three daily servings of dairy -- as part of a calorie-controlled diet -- may help decrease belly fat and enhance weight loss.

Low-fat dairy foods make excellent snacks because they contain both carbohydrates and protein.

"Dairy foods are perfect snacks for diabetics and everyone else because [they help] maintain blood sugar levels," says Bonnie Taub-Dix, MA, RD, a spokeswoman for the American Dietetic Association.

Whip up a smoothie with low-fat milk or yogurt, a splash of orange juice, and a handful of berries for an energizing meal substitute or anytime snack.
Disease Fighting Food 3: Fatty Fish

Omega-3 fatty acids are abundant in fish like salmon and tuna, disease fighting foods that can help lower blood fats and prevent blood clots associated with heart disease.

The American Heart Association recommends eating at least two servings of fish (especially fatty fish) at least twice a week. "Eating a diet rich in fatty fish can help reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease," says Lichtenstein.

There's another benefit to eating meals containing salmon or tuna: you'll reduce your potential intake of saturated fat from higher-fat entrees.

Fire up the grill or put your fish under the broiler for a quick, tasty, and heart-healthy meal.
Disease Fighting Food 4: Dark, Leafy Greens

One of the best disease fighting foods is dark, leafy greens, which include everything from spinach, kale, and bok choy to dark lettuces. They are loaded with vitamins, minerals, beta-carotene, vitamin C, folate, iron, magnesium, carotenoids, phytochemicals, and antioxidants. A Harvard study found that eating magnesium-rich foods such as spinach can reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.

Make your next salad with assorted greens, including supernutritious spinach or other dark-colored greens for a meal that fights disease.
Disease Fighting Food 5: Whole Grains

Grandma urged us to start the day with a bowl of oatmeal, but did they have any idea that the soluble fiber from oats helps to lower blood cholesterol levels?

Whole grains include the nutritional components that are typically stripped away from refined grains. They contain folic acid, selenium, and B vitamins, and are important to heart health, weight control, and reducing the risk of diabetes. Their fiber content helps keeps you feeling full between meals as well and promotes digestive health.

Enjoy at least three servings a day of whole-grain goodness: whole wheat; barley; rye; millet; quinoa; brown rice; wild rice; and whole-grain pasta, breads, and cereals. The daily recommendation for fiber is 21-38 grams, depending on your sex and age, according to the American Dietetic Association.
Disease Fighting Food 6: Sweet Potatoes

One of the easiest ways to make a healthful dietary change is to think "sweet" instead of "white" potatoes. These luscious orange tubers are boasting a wealth of antioxidants; phytochemicals including beta-carotene; vitamins C and E; folate; calcium; copper; iron; and potassium. The fiber in sweet potatoes promotes a healthy digestive tract, and the antioxidants play a role in preventing heart disease and cancer.

Its natural sweetness means a roasted sweet potato is delicious without any additional fats or flavor enhancers. Substitute sweet potatoes in recipes calling for white potatoes or apples to boost the nutrients.
Disease Fighting Food 7: Tomatoes

These red-hot fruits of summer are bursting with flavor and lycopene -- an antioxidant that may help protect against some cancers. They also deliver an abundance of vitamins A and C, potassium, and phytochemicals.

Enjoy tomatoes raw, cooked, sliced, chopped, or diced as part of any meal or snack. Stuff a tomato half with spinach and top with grated cheese for a fabulous and colorful side dish.
Disease Fighting Food 8: Beans and Legumes

These nutritious nuggets are packed with phytochemicals; fat-free, high-quality protein; folic acid; fiber; iron; magnesium; and small amounts of calcium. Beans are an excellent and inexpensive protein source and a great alternative for low-calorie vegetarian meals.

Eating beans and legumes regularly as part of a healthy eating plan can help reduce the risk of certain cancers; lower blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels; and stabilize blood sugar. Beans also play an important role in weight management by filling you up with lots of bulk and few calories.

Think beans when making salads, soups, stews, or dips.
Disease Fighting Food 9: Nuts

Nuts are full of fats. But they're the healthy, mono- and polyunsaturated kind, which can help lower cholesterol levels and help prevent heart disease. In addition, nuts are a good source of protein, fiber, selenium, vitamin E, and vitamin A.

Small portions of nuts can boost energy and beat hunger, helping dieters stay on track. Still, nuts pack plenty of calories -- and it's easy to overeat these tasty treats.

So enjoy nuts, but be mindful of your portion size. Try to limit yourself to an ounce a day. That's about 28 peanuts, 14 walnut halves, or just 7 Brazil nuts.
Disease Fighting Food 10: Eggs

Their cholesterol content once led to bad press for the mighty egg, but research has redeemed it. It turns out that saturated fat (eggs have little) plays a bigger role than the cholesterol in food in elevating our blood cholesterol.

Eggs are packed with economical, high-quality protein, and are an excellent source of the carotenoids lutein, choline, and xeanthin. In fact, eggs are one of the best sources of dietary choline, an essential nutrient -- especially for pregnant women. Eggs have been shown to supply nutrients that promote eye health and help prevent age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in older people.

The American Heart Association has given eggs the thumbs-up for healthy people. As long as you limit your average daily cholesterol intake to 300 mg, you can enjoy an egg a day.

Eggs are adaptable to every meal. Enjoy eggs for a quick meal, or pack a hard-boiled egg for a tasty, high protein snack.
The Big Picture

For top disease-fighting power, eat all of these amazing edibles together with other healthful foods that didn't make my top 10 list, including green tea, chocolate, alcohol (in limited quantities), olive oil, and soy.

Beyond the choices I listed here, fruits and vegetables in general are powerhouses of fiber, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. By eating five or more servings a day, you help protect your body from heart disease, cancer, and other diseases.

The real key to preventing disease and promoting health is not certain foods, but a lifestyle of regular physical activity and healthy eating, experts say.

Overall, an eating plan low in saturated fat and rich in whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and legumes is your best bet for a healthy heart, according to a Stanford University study reported in the Annals of Internal Medicine.

And "there is very little evidence that individual foods with super-nutrient profiles can reduce the risk of cancer," according to Coleen Doyle, MS, RD, the American Cancer Society's nutrition and physical activity director. "But healthy dietary patterns, including these foods, along with a healthy lifestyle, [are] critical to reducing risk for cancer."

Remember that portion size does matter, even when it comes to healthful foods. If you gain weight eating super-portions of super-nutritious foods, you'll negate the health benefits because of the health risks associated with being overweight, Lichtenstein says.

Also keep in mind that taking a vitamin, mineral, or herbal supplement is no replacement for eating a variety of healthy food. "There is limited evidence that supplements, beyond filling nutritional gaps, make a difference," says Doyle.

Make no mistake about it; eating healthfully -- at least most of the time -- is your best defense against chronic diseases. And the best part? Good nutrition really does taste great.
WebMD Feature Reviewed by Louise Chang, MD on July 28, 2006
Sources
© 2005 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved.
Top Picks

    Get The Protein You Need
    How to Make a Great Grocery List
    Becoming a Vegetarian: Foods to Choose From
    Best and Worst Appetizers
    Truth About Omega-3s
    Video: Powerhouse Fruits and Veggies

further reading

    Foods That Boost Your Mood
    Best Diet Tips Ever -- 22 Ways to Stay on Track
    Eat to Boost Your Energy
    Energy for Sale
    What to Eat Before, During and After Exercise
    Barbara's Story: More Food, More Energy, More Fun
    Functional Foods and Their Benefits
    Foods for Energy Topics

Today on WebMD
Still Life Of Protein Foods
Protein Myths & Facts

Test your knowledge.
drinking milk
Truth About Vitamin D

Wonder pill or overkill?
Tools & Resources

    Vitamin & Mineral Sources
    Canola Oil Benefits
    Best and Worst Juices
    Low-Sodium Cooking Tips
    Guide to Becoming Vegetarian
    Best and Worst Appetizers

Click to See More
Sign up for our free Food & Fitness Newsletter
By clicking Subscribe, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time.
More from WebMD

    5 Tips to Help With Relapsing MS
    How to Thrive With Narcolepsy
    Relief for Blocked Hair Follicles
    Psoriatic Arthritis and Your Sleep
    What Psoriasis Feels Like
    First Psoriatic Arthritis Flare
    Talking to Your Doctor About RA
    Crohn's: A 'Full-Body' Disease
    Avoiding Crohn’s Flares
    Health Benefits of Hemp Seed Oil
    Live Better With Psoriatic Disease
    Types of B-Cell Therapy for MS
    5 Health Benefits of Hemp
    Why Prostate Cancer Spreads
    Living with Advanced Breast Cancer
    Where Breast Cancer Spreads

    Logo for WebMD
        Visit WebMD on Facebook
        Visit WebMD on Twitter
        Visit WebMD on Pinterest
    Policies
        Privacy Policy
        Cookie Policy
        Editorial Policy
        Advertising Policy
        Correction Policy
        Terms of Use
    About
        Contact Us
        About WebMD
        Careers
        Newsletter
        Corporate
        WebMD Health Services
        Site Map
        Accessibility
    WebMD Network
        Medscape
        Medscape Reference
        MedicineNet
        eMedicineHealth
        RxList
        OnHealth
        WebMDRx
        First Aid
        WebMD Magazine
        WebMD Health Record
        Dictionary
        Physician Directory
    Our Apps
        WebMD Mobile
        WebMD App
        Pregnancy
        Baby
        Allergy
        Medscape
    For Advertisers
        Advertise with Us
        Advertising Policy

© 2005 - 2022 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.

See additional information.


    Diseases and Injuries
    Family Health
    Nutrition
    Weight Management
    Appearance

 
 
Monitor the health of your community here
Fruits To Help Prevent Sinus Infection

    Causes of Sinus Infection
    High-Antioxidant Fruits
    Anti-Inflammatory Fruits
    Avoid Problem Foods

Written by Stephanie Ann Scott
28 November, 2018

Eating high-antioxidant, anti-inflammatory fruits can contribute to a healthy immune system and aid the body in fighting off infection. If you suffer from chronic sinus infections, avoid foods such as dairy, gluten, sugar and processed foods.
Is This an Emergency?

If you are experiencing serious medical symptoms, seek emergency treatment immediately.
Causes of Sinus Infection

According to Pub Med Health, viral, fungal or bacterial infection can cause sinus infections or sinusitis 1. Anything that blocks the normal drainage of the sinus cavities, including allergies, can predispose you to developing a sinus infection. Strengthening the immune function through good nutrition, including fruits and vegetables, can help the body to fight off foreign substances.
High-Antioxidant Fruits

Fruits high in antioxidants and flavonoids include blueberries, blackberries, raspberries and strawberries. Load up on fresh in-season berries during summer. Other antioxidant-rich fruits include kiwi, red grapes and cranberries. Antioxidant-rich foods can remove free-radicals that cause oxidative damage to your body and lead to disease and infection.

    Fruits high in antioxidants and flavonoids include blueberries, blackberries, raspberries and strawberries.
    Other antioxidant-rich fruits include kiwi, red grapes and cranberries.

Anti-Inflammatory Fruits

Great anti-inflammatory fruits include papaya and pineapple. Papaya contains vitamins C and E as well as papain, an enzyme that aids in the digestion of protein and reduces inflammation. Pineapple contains bromelain, a natural antihistamine and anti-inflammatory agent, which can help to liquefy mucus build up and reduce swelling throughout the body, including inflammation of nasal sinus passages.
Avoid Problem Foods

Many foods produce mucus and promote inflammation and the allergic response. You may find it beneficial to remove some of these problem foods. Foods such as:

    dairy
    gluten
    alcohol
    coffee
    sugar
    soda
    white flour
    processed foods can contribute to sinusitis symptoms
    promoting an environment where infection can thrive

Keep the body hydrated by drinking plenty of water to help keep mucus membranes moist and enable them to remove foreign particles.
Brought to you by Livestrong
Related Articles
Foods to Avoid When Asthmatic
Foods to Avoid When Asthmatic

Learn More
Nutrition for Fructose Malabsorption
Nutrition for Fructose Malabsorption

Learn More
Foods to Avoid With a Cough
Foods to Avoid With a Cough

Learn More
How Much Fruit Can You Eat on a Diet?
How Much Fruit Can You Eat on a Diet?

Learn More
What Causes Stomachaches from Dried Fruit?
What Causes Stomachaches from Dried Fruit?

Learn More
I Feel Irritable, Moody, Depressed, Tired and Sluggish Immediately After Eating
I Feel Irritable, Moody, Depressed, Tired and Sluggish Immediately After Eating

Learn More
Yeast, Gluten and Dairy Free Diets
Yeast, Gluten and Dairy Free Diets

Learn More
Can You Get Sick From Eating Fruits?
Can You Get Sick From Eating Fruits?

Learn More
Fruits That Heal Wounds
Fruits That Heal Wounds

Learn More
Foods Not to Eat With Candida
Foods Not to Eat With Candida

Learn More

References

Writer Bio

    Diseases and Injuries
    Family Health
    Nutrition
    Weight Management
    Appearance
    About Us
    Accessibility
    Terms of Use
    Privacy
    Copyright Policy

Copyright © 2022 Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle


Sign in

Sign in
Welcome!Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password?
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
Thursday, April 28, 2022

    Sign in / Join

Parenting Healthy Babies

    Pre-planning & Pregnancy
    Baby
    Toddler
    Teenager
    For You
    Health Benefits
    FAQS

Home Child Health 21 Food that Help Fight Infection in Children

    Child Health

21 Food that Help Fight Infection in Children
March 28, 2018
0
2485
Share

There are many foods that can fight infection. Starting from cabbages, carrots, and cloves to cumin seeds, garlic, ginger and honey, there are many foods which will help your child from falling ill. Eggplant leaves also have miraculous anti-bacterial properties and can be beneficial to your child. (Bakhru, 2000).

Other than that, there are other foods like radish and mushrooms which have strong ability to boost your child’s immune system. Both lemon and lime are rich in vitamin C and has proven to protect your child from common cold and flu.

Apart from that there are fruits like mango and pineapple which are good for fighting infections in your child. Onion and turmeric can play vital role in curing your child from any common ailment and there is also the herbs like sage which helps children in combating fever and cold. . (Bakhru, 2000).
21 Food that Help Fight Infection in Children
1. Cabbage:

This leafy vegetable has great anti-bacterial properties. It can be had in many forms and has the power of destroying more than one variety of bacteria. It is an excellent muscle builder and will definitely boost your child’s overall immune system. If your child is suffering from any kind of stomach related ailments then cabbage juice can cure it with ease.

Red cabbages are also super-rich in vitamin C, which is an important anti-oxidant boosting your child’s overall immunity. It stimulates the activity of white blood cells, in your child’s wee body thereby forming the first line of defense for the immune system to work. (Kyung & Flemming, 1994).
2. Carrot:

Rich in beta-carotene and anti-oxidants, carrots are marvelous foods choice for your child. Carrots are good for your child’s kidney and have very good cleansing property. The strong alkaline property of this vegetable helps in boosting the blood vessels of your child. (Staniszewska & Kula, 2005).

21 Food that Help Fight Infection in Children
3. Clove:

This popular spice has magical healing property when it comes to children. It has great medicinal values. Clove is very effective in treating cholera infection. Cloves boiled in water can actually treat cholera. Moreover, cloves are well known for their effect on oral health of children. If your child is suffering from toothache or gum related problems then feeding him/her with clove will solve the problems.
4. Coconut:

Coconut has marvelous anti-bacterial properties. The coconut meat is rich in minerals and has good anti-biotic properties. Moreover, the coconut water is also good for restoring the electrolyte balance of the body. It keeps your child’s system in proper condition and protects from infections and diseases. Like clove, coconut is also fights cholera infection and hence is good for your child.
5. Garlic:

Belonging to the onion family garlic is one of the world’s strongest anti-bacterial foods. Research shows that garlic has the potential to either kill or cripple as much as 72 different bacteria. (Bakhru, 2000). According to a research conducted by Akbar Clinic and Research Center in Panama City, Florida, garlic possess the broadest spectrum of anti-bacterial substances. That makes it an ideal choice to be added in your child’s diet. Raw garlic is also equally useful however, considering the tenderness of your child’s yet-to-be-developed digestive system it is better that you avoid raw garlic at this moment.
6. Ginger:

Like many other root vegetables, ginger is rich in natural nutrients and is good for your child’s immunity. Over centuries, ginger is being used in order to treat fatal diseases like cholera, diarrhea, and any form of congestion in the chest. Ginger juice added with a hint of lime and honey is known to cure common cold and any sort of stomach infection. Whilst on one hand, both ginger and garlic have proper healing properties but at the same time these root vegetables are very strong in taste and odor. That is why it is advisable that you gradually introduce the food to your child so that he/she gets used to its taste.
7. Honey:

Honey is the perfect medicine if your child is suffering from throat infections. The natural inflammatory property of honey will cure throat infections for your child. Also at the same time this food is good to cure stomach bugs and ulcers. Sometimes young children do not maintain a proper oral health. That results in gum and teeth related problems. Honey is known to cure gum infections too.
8. Lemon:

This very important food in the citrus family is rich in Vitamin C and useful minerals. It has tremendous anti-bacterial properties and can cure many diseases for your child. Especially if your child is suffering from sore throat or major throat infection then lemon juice can come to good effect. It has wonderful anti-cholera properties and it can be regarded as the most effective food in killing the bacteria. Apart from that lemon can boost your child’s overall immunity.
 9. Lime:

Many citrus fruits like in the form of sweet lime, grapefruits, oranges and tangerines can help your child to grow a strong immune system. The citrus fruits are rich in vitamin C and hence they can fight off the free radicals from your child’s body. This will help your child to stay fit and healthy.
10. Moringa

Might be a surprise addition in the list but moringa is actually a very good food for children. Moringa has a great detoxifying potential. For that reason it has positive impacts your child’s kidney and liver. Considering the amount of junk food your child is normally exposed to, natural detoxifiers like moringa is a good choice. Globally moringa is known for its anti-inflammatory properties. This property is even more profound in moringa powder. If your child suffers a lot from cough and cold or any sort of minor infections then feeding him/her moringa powder will definitely help in the long run.
11. Mango

Mangoes are one of those classic fruits which are good for immunity of your child. Like the citrus fruits they are rich in vitamin C. Over and above they are also good source of vitamin B. These vitamins help in fighting off the free radicals and help your child to have an infection free life.
12. Chives

Like spinach, chives are also nutrient rich vegetables which are good for your child. Chives are known for its great detoxification potency which will help your child’s body to get rid of the harmful toxins. In his/her early growth stages, your child is exposed to various levels of oxidative stresses and that can accumulate a heavy amount of toxin in his/her body. The regular consumption of similar leafy greens can really help his/her body to remain healthy and free toxic.  Chives is rich in both vitamin C and A and they send free radicals to keep your child’s skin healthy and boosting his/her immunity. The detoxifiers found in chives will also prevent your child from falling ill or catching cold on a regular basis.
13. Onion:

Onion is a very strong anti-septic and anti-biotic food. According to Bakhru (2000) onion was used for treating Russian soldiers during World War II. Onion has tremendous anti-bacterial properties and can actually heal various disorders in children. (Corzo-Martinez & Villamiel, 2007). Especially if your child is suffering from any sort of tooth problem or stomach infection or even suffering from common cold, onion paste and raw onion can be very helpful. You can make a home-made onion sauce and add it to your child’s diet.
14. Pineapple:

Pineapple is good for your child’s immunity. Regular feeding of pineapple can actually improve the overall immunity of your little one. He/she will tend to fall sick less often than before.

The anti-inflammatory property of pineapple will help your child to fight-off the free radicals and bacteria that causes children to fall ill often. Pineapples are also beneficial for curing cough and cold and clearing of phlegm.
15. Radish:

Does your child suffer frequently from stomach bugs? Radish might be an answer to that problem. The sulforphane found in radish are known to prevent bacterium responsible for gastric problems. This particular bacterium not causes frequent stomach upsets but also it has the tendency of triggering the chances of a critical ulcer. A simple addition of radish in the regular meals of your child will ensure that he/she will get rid of all the stomach issues forever.

Research also shows that radish juices are good for treating common cold and flu among children. Radish juice mixed with honey is good for treating whooping cough in children. (Bakhru, 2000).
16. Sage:

Sage should definitely be included in this mostly due to the content of vitamin C and iron. The overall concentration of vitamin C in this leafy green makes it a premium choice as far as your child is concerned. Sage is also rich in Vitamin A and for that reason is good for retaining the amount of nutrient. Due to the presence of vitamins and minerals sage is known to offer miraculous anti-biotic benefits to children. Easy to digest, this herb can protect your child from falling prey to regular fever and flu.
17. Turmeric:

A key ingredient to any curry, turmeric offers many benefits to your child. Improving immunity is certainly one of them. Turmeric has great healing qualities and is good for his/her immunity. It repairs damaged tissues and helps your child to recover from flu and cold. If there are any external wounds then in that case also turmeric paste acts as a good anti-septic agent.
18. Hemp Seeds

Hemp seeds are known for its quality of improving immunity and organ function. If your child is suffering from regular cough & cold or fever, feed him with hemp seeds in order to grow the desire level of resistance in him/her.
19. Tomatoes

Tomatoes are rich in anti-oxidants and have the ability to fight off free radicals. In that way they can protect your child from any kind of flu or bacteria. If your child falls sick often then tomato juice or tomato soup can help your child.
 20. Red Bell Peppers

Just like red cabbages, red bell peppers are also very immunity boosting for your child. Red bell pepper contains huge amount of vitamin C and that equips your child with the potential to fight off any harmful bacteria and virus.
21. Eggplant Leaves:

Eggplant leaves have tremendous immunity boosting potential which people often tend to ignore. According to Bakhru (2000) eggplant leaf extracts can cure stomach bugs and fights off kidney infection among children. Tender, green and young leaves should be chosen in order to make that extract. It equips the child with the potential to fight off the deadly bacteria and fungi.
Conclusion:

Apart from the foods listed above you can also feed your child with yogurt, apples, and papaya. They also have good anti-bacterial properties. However, before you offer any new food to your child, it is always safe to consult the physician. You must make sure that your child is not allergic to the food you choose to offer.

Reference:

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0924224407002282

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1365-2621.1994.tb06915.x
RELATED POSTS
Share
Previous article
7 Health Benefits of Pumpkin Leaf for Women
Next article
11 Home Remedies for Treating Intestinal Worms in Kids
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
hemorrhoids in kids
Child Health
Hemorrhoids in Kids: Causes, Symptoms, Remedies and Prevention
oppositional defiant disorder
Child Health
Oppositional Defiant Disorder: 7 Ways to Control Defiant Children
foods to relieve constipation in babies
Child Health
11 Top Baby Foods to Relieve Constipation
MOST POPULAR
Infant Hair Growth TIps
11 Things To Do For Baby Hair Growth
June 13, 2015
oil baby hair growth
Top 11 Oils for Baby Hair Growth
January 30, 2017
Pregnancy foods
10 Pregnancy Foods to get a Fair Baby
June 27, 2017
Easter Crafts for Kids
51 Easter Crafts for Kids
March 9, 2015
Lemon Balm
11 Awesome Herbal Teas for Children
August 28, 2015
JOKES & RIDDLES
Teenager
75 Tricky Riddles for Teens
riddles
Activities for Kids
101 Funny Riddles for Kids With Answers
Subscribe
First name or full name
Email
 By continuing, you accept the privacy policy
ABOUT US
We, at ParentingHealthyBabies.com, hold your hands as you progress from the preconception stage to pregnancy, child birth,early child rearing and parenting. Happy Parenting!
Contact us: info@cognatemedia.com
FOLLOW US
© © 2019 Parenting Healthy Babies Information on this website is for education purpose only. Consult a medical practitioner for health problems.
thalassemia in infants
baby sleep regression



